
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —One wonders in reading the newspapers why it is there seems to be so little communication between us and our allies. Why should we announce through the State Department that we are going to sell arms to Egypt and then a few days later find that our British allies are "seriously concerned that the U.S. will offer Egypt military supplies unilaterally," and that France and Israel may also protest?
It would seem so much simpler to consult our allies beforehand in order to prevent these difficulties arising after a policy has already been announced.
I do not suppose it is surprising that we should have a break in the stock market almost equal to '29, for, of course, there is fear that the President's illness will lead to a change in some of the policies that are considered safe and sane by the financial wizards of the country. One can only hope that few people have really suffered. Speculators are the ones who sustain immediate losses, not the people who own their stock outright and who can wait in the hope that the stock will come back to its real worth on the market.
It is good to know that the doctors are hopeful of the President's complete recovery, and it is especially heartening that he can look to resuming some work in about two weeks. That means that his advice will be available and that he also will be able to make final decisions on important problems.
This is important because sometimes in previous Presidential illnesses there has been a period when the President could not be consulted and decisions were sometimes made in ways that were afterwards thought not to have been wise. There is apparently no danger of this today, and I have been hopeful that that would be the case right along.
Notice has come to me of a sale now going on in Buffalo of many of the furnishings and decorations owned by the late Mrs. Norman E. Mack. This sale takes place at 805 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, and will continue through October 1. Many people who remember Mrs. Mack may want to acquire some little thing as a reminder of their long association. Mrs. Mack was active in the Democratic party and many welfare organizations for many years and was well known to a great many people in the state.
Many will read with regret about the death of Rear Admiral John R. Perry, who organized the Seabees in World War II. He was only 56 years old.
Those who served under him in the Seabees and those who profited by the work done by that organization will remember him with gratitude. He had the talent for finding the best way to use the abilities of a large number of men after sizing up a situation and determining the best way to put those men to work to achieve his goal.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
