
                  
                     NEW YORK, Wednesday
                  —Late Tuesday afternoon Britain's Queen Mother Elizabeth arrived in New York after what must have been a very rough voyage. We hope that the warm welcome extended her on her arrival will make up for the discomforts of the journey.
Fifteen years ago as Queen Consort she came with her young husband, King George VI, to cement the friendship that existed between the United States and Great Britain. Their trip was a whirlwind of activity, and they were greeted everywhere with that spontaneous response which comes from the American people when they realize people are meeting danger with gallant courage. In '39 the danger hung on the horizon and could not be ignored. I believe that the Queen Mother, on her present visit, will again cement the bonds that bind us to our cousins across the sea.
We have come a long way since '39. World War II has been fought and, though even the victors can no longer be said to be very victorious in war, out of it has come an organization which I hope will eventually bring us a peaceful world. The great powers and the small ones have joined together in creating the United Nations, one of the great steps toward world unity.
The latest developments in Europe should strengthen the free world and at the same time should give the Soviets the assurance they want that Germany will not again be allowed to become an aggressor nation. This should calm the fears which have led Soviet statesmen to try to build buffer states between themselves and Germany. If they could be sufficiently reassured to permit a free election in East Germany, I think a united Germany could be counted upon as a peaceful and friendly neighbor for the Soviet Union.
The settlements in Trieste and the Saar also have helped to stabilize the whole European situation.
Now, Queen Mother Elizabeth has come to America with a desire to increase our understanding of Great Britain's aims and objectives in the world of today. No better ambassador could come to these shores. She will be honored by Columbia University, by our President and by all the people who respect her as a woman, admire her as a wife and mother, and want her as a friend to the people of the United States.
The National Issues Committee has just issued its first edition of NIC "Brief".." It is devoted to education and discusses the situation of education in this country at the present time. The editors have put a little note at the head of the Issue which I hope will make everyone read it. They were aware, they say, that there was a "crisis in education" but they have found a "gathering catastrophe."
This report can be obtained from the National Issues Committee, Inc. 1832 Jefferson Place N.W., Washington 6, D.C.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
