
                  
                     MILWAUKEE.
                  —I think it is important that all of us be reminded of National Social Hygiene Day (April 28). The American Social Hygiene Association is carrying on important work. This organization is allocating funds from various community chests and other united funds throughout the country. When it goes into a particular community to do a specific job it must have an understanding of that community and the people it is serving must have an awareness of the importance of the work the ASHA is doing.
Much of the ASHA work is for the benefit of the armed forces, and with so many of our young people going into the Army now it is doubly important that the program with the military personnel should go on. General of the Army Omar Bradley has said:
"I consider as highly important the work of ASHA in sponsoring education in personal and family living for the youth of our nation prior to induction, and in cooperating with the armed forces in continuing educational and character guidance programs for military personnel.
"I know also the fine results of ASHA's work with both military and civilian leaders in communities adjacent to military installations, in helping to create a healthy, wholesome environment in areas used by service personnel on leave. I sincerely urge the American people to support this fine work."
There could be no better endorsement than that so far as the value of this organization in helping our young people in the armed forces is concerned. But I think many should like to know how the money they contribute is spent. Almost half of it will go into community education and for law enforcement against commercial prostitution. Almost 500 communities now are neighbors to military establishments and the organization discovers the facts and alerts those communities and the military to local law enforcement rules.
Some of its money goes to community services for venereal disease control and the large remaining balance goes into family life education. ASHA not only works with parents and with educators but it provides them with material both on the adult level and on the level of elementary and secondary schools.
A very small amount of the money you give will go into the organizing needed for this program presentation. So, you can really feel that through the money you give to ASHA you are directly helping members of your community.
(Distributed by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
