
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —The past Tuesday I had the pleasure of doing a TV broadcast for the Canadian Broadcasting Company at the United Nations and that gave me the chance for a meeting with Mrs. Dorothy Lewis who is full of plans, as usual. She is one of the most energetic people I know, with a very fertile brain. Her organizing ability and the quick vision of how ideas can be made to reach people, using all the modern methods of communication, sometimes make me quite breathless. I am apt to feel the complications of organization and to worry about those, forgetting how many tools we have at hand to use these days.
On Wednesday I left in the morning for Columbus, Ohio. From there on Thursday morning I took a plane to Cincinnati, had a press conference and luncheon and took an afternoon plane back to New York, arriving home by 8 P.M.p.m.
As long as the weather is good, plane travel certainly is a wonderful thing in the way of annihilating distance. It makes it possible to do a great many things we would never be able to do otherwise.
One of the telegrams that pleased me especially on my birthday was a very kind message which came from Mr. James M. Cox, my husband's running mate in the 1920 campaign when the League of Nations was the vital issue. They were defeated, but today the United Nations has come to prove that President Wilson's dream and what Mr. Cox and my husband fought for is clearly the hope of the future. If we, the people, are wise and diligent, we may be able to see a successful carrying out of the latest effort of nations to come together to solve humanity's problems on a peaceful and unified basis.
These speaking trips have one advantage, namely, that while you travel you cannot sit at a desk, you cannot make appointments to see people or do any of the hundred and one things you would do if at home. Therefore you find yourself actually able to read, and in odd moments in hotels, and on planes and trains, I have done the major part of my reading in the last few years. So I look upon these trips as having some restful and invigorating facets!
Next week is United Nations Week and the American Association for the U.N. always urges its chapters to make it a particularly valuable week in promoting our efforts to inform people on the work of the U.N. The AAUN's whole emphasis on the week leads up to the celebration of U.N. Day on October 24.
The committee for U.N. Day has the responsibility of urging as many governors and mayors, and all the people it can reach, to organize some form of recognition of the U.N. on that day.
There will be afternoon ceremonies this year at the U.N. itself, under committee auspices, and the committee has emphasized church observance of the day since it falls this year on Sunday.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
