
                  
                     PARIS, Friday
                  —Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden have been here and gone. I hope they left the French with a greater sense of security. In any case, they said Britain would take part in a European army. The newspapers here stated that Mr. Churchill showed no great enthusiasm, but I am sure the whole of Europe feels this is a great gain.
In Committee One a disarmament conference finally has been set up under a resolution embodying a working arrangement that the United Kingdom, France and the U.S. could accept, and I feel this is a real step forward.
I don't fool myself about the months ahead and the negotiations and the shillyshallying back and forth that is in store for us. But it is a step in the right direction, and when we look at the time it has taken to set up the proper provisions for an armistice in Korea and see how slowly each point is accepted we must be thankful. One has been driven to the realization of what every step gained is going to mean, but it is only by patience and perseverance that we will win out without going to war. And that is, after all, the objective that all of us have—a free world and a peaceful one.
There seems to be no end to the list of speakers in Committee Three. Yesterday we heard the Russia delegate make a speech that was almost devoid of attack on the United States. Perhaps he felt that the few derogatory remarks he threw out, plus the violent attacks made by Czechoslovakia and Byelo-Russia and the Ukraine would suffice.
But Dr. Charles Malik of Lebanon made a very careful analysis of the Covenant of Human Rights and the reasons for reconsideration of the decision to put all the rights in one covenant and came out with the recommendation for two covenants.
The slant of the philosopher was evident in what he said, but it was a very fine, temperate and reasoned speech and still he spoke with passion about the right of people to the freedom of thought and conscience and said that many a man had starved rather than give up that right—and would not only starve but die to preserve it.
Homer Bigart of the New York Herald Tribune is writing a series of articles on Moroccan politics and conditions in Morocco and I hope these are being read in the U.S.
There is no question but what most of us will feel that the civil rights of the Moroccans are not worth a penny at present, but there is room for doubt whether they would be worth any more or perhaps even be curtailed if they won their independence and the sultan took over tomorrow. This business of self-determination of people and the right of the people to manage their own country requires from the people a certain amount of preparation and self-discipline or they may be worse off than were before they undertook self-government. One important Responsibilityresponsibility of an occupying power is to prepare the people for self-government—and that is frequently one of the last things an occupying power does.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1951, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
