
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N.Y.HYDE PARK
                  —There is a little correction that I want to make. In writing of a study made by the Girl Scouts of America, I was under the impression that it was made among their own group of girls. I find, however, that the survey covered a cross-section of American teenage girls and that the vast majority wanted white collar jobs and no housework.
Many of these girls were found to be carrying heavy housework jobs, some of them being responsible for all the cooking at home because both father and mother and older sisters and brothers were at work.
Many of them had to take care of younger brothers and sisters until their parents came home and they had to share early morning work, so the reaction against housework might not be as strange a one as I first believed.
I also want to mention my appreciation of the fight which Congressman Frank Thompson Jr. (D., N.J.) is putting up for recognition of all the arts by government. He has now introduced bill HR 2512 to include in the Commission of Fine Arts the living arts of "music, drama, dance and poetry, architecture, landscape architecture, painting, sculpture, the graphic arts, the motion pictures, radio, television, literature and the crafts."
He is certainly a good fighter and a warm friend of all the arts, and I am glad he is getting a wider backing in the interest of such people as Dr. A. Whitney Griswold, president of Yale university, and Nelson Rockefeller.
At this writing it looks as though there might be a tug strike Friday in the port of New York. This would be a serious thing. It would curtail the flow of coal and fuel oil through a tieup of shipping and would bring about, I think, the same kind of resentment that existed against the union and the city government during the strike of 1946.
Any strike which really affects the daily lives of the people is not going to be looked on with tolerance, so an effort should be made to make the necessary adjustments.
Joe Alsop's column on his Moscow impressions do not give me a great desire to visit Moscow immediately. It sounds drab and dreary and I am afraid that is the way most of the Soviet citizens look.
Living in the U.S.S.R. may be an inspiring and exciting experiment, but I wonder whether the people living there day in and day out think of it in this way.
To be as completely isolated as Joe Alsop describes the lot of the foreigner in Russia would certainly be most unpleasant, and I for one am glad that I do not have to be a diplomat and live in this strange, unreal atmosphere.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
