
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —Last Saturday night I attended the dinner here honoring former President Truman on the occasion of his 70th birthday. Proceeds from the affair were turned over to the Harry S. Truman Library fund.
I had noticed that former Secretary of State Dean Acheson had said Mr. Truman brought gaiety to Washington during the few days he spent there with the Democratic National Committee, so I was not surprised to find the dinner on Saturday a pleasant and gay affair.
Everyone, regardless of party, of course wished Mr. Truman well on attaining the Biblical three-score-and-ten mark. He served our country through stormy years and he gave us the best that was in him. I hope his library, which will be built in Missouri, will soon become a reality, for I believe that all Presidents should have their own papers in separate places throughout the country so that the period in which they served can be studied with ease and the papers can be kept with maximum security. If it is possible for Mr. Truman to work on these papers himself, it will greatly facilitate the work of historians in the future.
I have just read a book that is really a must for any family with children. It is called "Pets Parade" and is by Leila Roosevelt and Bill Westley. The pictures are delightful and the book is charmingly written.
The purpose of the book is to help children and adults "to choose, care for and enjoy the pet best suited to your way of life." The story of the perfectly behaved skunk is very amusing. The little animal had been kept in the American Museum of Natural History and always justified the confidence placed in her until one day a young member of the museum staff took her for her daily walk in the park. There they had an encounter with a dowager and a Pekingese. Suddenly the skunk reacted as all self-respecting skunks would. Thereafter she was banished from the Museum to the Boy Scout camp at Bear Mountain.
There is much to be learned in this book about the nature and habits of pets, and I think everyone will find it amusing and instructive.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
