
                  
                     WASHINGTON.
                  —I am in Washington for a meeting of the American Association for the United Nations, at which about 100 organizations are represented, and for the second time in a week heard Thomas K. Finletter, former Secretary of the Air Force, speak.
I heard him in New York last week at the annual dinner of the Americans for Democratic Action and again here in Washington where he emphasized the importance of the United Nations and our participation in it.
One point he made in his speech I would like to pass along. That is that it is not enough for a great nation like the United States to be a member of the United Nations. In addition, it must have a policy to inspire confidence in smaller nations to think on a world-wideworldwide scale and lead in the formation of U.N. policy.
Such a position I have felt for a long time is a vital necessity for the United States, and I hope more people will think of this country as a real leader in the United Nations.
In coming to Washington, one always hears all kinds of gossip and rumors. One report that was new to me although it may not have been to many others was that when Premier Guy Mollet of France came to Washington, he had to wait two days before he was permitted to see the President.
Just what the reason for this may have been is difficult to understand, for this does not seem to be a tactful way of trying to build up a warm feeling in relations that have been strained.
Before coming here I saw a play in New York called "Separate Tables," by Terence Rattigan. It is really two plays, with the same scene and some of the same characters appearing in both.
Both plays leave it to the audience's imagination as to how the story ends, but they are well acted. Performances by Margaret Leighton and Eric Portman stood out and they changed their characters so successfully in the second play that it was difficult to realize you were seeing the same people.
The British Commonwealth today (Wednesday) receives the African colony of the Gold Coast as the independent state of Ghana. I wish to congratulate this country of 5,000,000 people on its independence and wish it success in setting up a government and administering it for the greatest benefit of everyone.
Ghana has a responsibility both to its own people and to the Commonwealth. If it does well, more rapid changes probably will take place in other colonies.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
