
                  
                     CLEVELAND, OhioClevelandmissingerpp,Tuesday.—In Los Angeles the other day we had a meeting in the morning with the chapter heads in the area, and I hope we clarified some of the questions as regards organization. After lunch there was a meeting with the NGO's. These are the representatives of national organizationorganizations who have a recognized status with the United Nations. They attend United Nations sessions and have a right to ask permission to be heard if they wish. This is a very important group because through their organizations which have small groups scattered throughout the country they can reach a vast number and because of their knowledge of the UNU.N. they are conscious of the need for the American Association for the United Nations.
I am becoming more and more cognizant of the fact that the difficulty of getting information to people is one that must be met in a great variety of ways. An Elmo Roper poll may tell you that in the United States 73 percent of the people are in favor of the United Nations, but unless there are many people really actively interested in making each individual feel that he has a personal responsibility in promoting knowledge and cooperation through the UNU.N., very little in the way of creating an atmosphere in which peace can grow can be hoped for.
For the first time I have met our new national chairman, Dr. Charles Mayo. He is a most charming person, quiet and retiring, but I am quite sure that all the radio interviews and his press conference were very successful because of his delightful personality. He has listened to all the meetings and here and there has said a word of encouragement, but he insists that he wants to learn more.
It is interesting to see in the papers out here the question raised as to whether Mr. Samuel KP. Sears, a Boston trial lawyer who was picked to handle "the long heralded Senate inquiry in the row between the Army and McCarthy" may just be chosen to whitewash the Senator. These papers say that Mr. Sears once highly praised Senator McCarthy, and when asked, he dodged the answer by saying "I'm not conscious of anything that would disqualify me for that position. I'm going to do my best."
To many of us, the choice of someone who has come out in favor of Senator McCarthy in the past would seem a little odd. The committee has had great difficulty, however, in finding someone to take this job, and the papers say that Mr. Sears volunteered. I suppose it was hard to refuse him, but it may be difficult to get any decision in the case that will be very convincing.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
