
                  
                     BUFFALO, N.Y.
                  —I have seldom heard anything more beautiful than the Beethoven Missa Solemnis as sung by La Schola Cantorum with the New York Philharmonic Orchestra at the concert given this past Monday night at the United Nations. It was certainly a joy and I was particularly happy to see Leonard Bernstein and his charming wife. He is one of my favorite composers and conductors, besides being one of the people I particularly like.
On Tuesday Mr. Isaac Liberman of Arnold Constable gave his annual lunch for the benefit of Wiltwyck School. This school is attempting to extend its work to encompass the period of time when the boys are allowed to leave the institution till they are thoroughly resettled in New York City.
This is always a period of difficulty in the readjustment to life in the city. Very often these children cannot return to their own homes from which they originally reached the court, so a group home in New York City is a hope that Wiltwyck School has had for some time.
A very small home was started last year and now the board is attempting to establish another one to accommodate more of the boys so that they will feel they have a home of their own and some responsibility as they resume their lives in the city.
The institution cares for more young boys than at any time since it was founded, and the treatment for them has been greatly expanded. We are very grateful for the help given us by Mr. Liberman and the friends he gathers together annually.
A little booklet has just been published by the Arthur C. Croft Publications of New London, Conn., telling about the U.N. in drawings accompainedaccompanied by very brief written explanations. The illustrations are by R. Roberts Baldwin, the script by Jean S. Picker, and I wrote a little summing-up as an ending to tell the purpose we have in mind in getting out this booklet. In addition, I edited and planned the book with Mrs. Picker.
I am hopeful that this booklet will appeal to schools and organizations of all kinds. Admittedly it is as brief as possible, but I think it is comprehensive and gives a very graphic description of the structure and work of the U.N. and its specialized agencies.
It includes an explanation of the International Court of Justice, prints the preamble to the Charter and the preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. There is also a page that gives suggestions as to what you can do to support the U.N. if this booklet succeeds in giving you good reasons for doing so.
If you belong to an organization and order the booklet in quantities, the name of the organization may be printed on the back cover, which is blank. For young and old I think this is a pamphlet worth keeping close at hand.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
