
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —I had the pleasure the other morning of meeting in the Carnegie Endowment building with a large group from North Carolina who had come up to visit the United Nations headquarters and make a study of its various activities. On Friday morning I met with another group from the state of Iowa representing a considerable number of Methodist churches.
It is interesting to me that more and more groups from the different states are planning trips to the UNU.N.. People are paying their own way and spending several days in New York City and most of their time is devoted to the study of the working of the UNU.N..
This is of value and also must give great encouragement to our United States delegation to the UNU.N.. They must often be discouraged by the attacks made on the UNU.N. when they are giving so much time in their work for this organization. Therefore, having citizens come to visit the UNU.N. and also our headquarters, as I am sure they do, will give every individual representative a sense of the value of the work which he or she is doing.
On Thursday night I spoke to the English Speaking Union and was happy to find their clubrooms filled with people evidently deeply interested in our international relations.
Friday night I went to Valley Stream, Long Island, for a well attended Parent Teacher's Association meeting in the high school. In all of these meetings I am asked to talk about the UNU.N. and its specialized agencies and our own tie-up with UNU.N. work. I realize that one voice can do very little in the struggle to acquaint the people of the U.S. with the work that the UNU.N. is accomplishing. I hope, however, that in speaking to such groups as the PTA I may be able to leave with them one or two new thoughts which they in turn may spread among their friends and neighbors and so increase the knowledge of work done in the UNU.N..
I have just received a letter from a group of women dentists in this metropolitan area announcing the publication of a scientific bulletin. They tell me that dentistry is largely practiced by men and that this bulletin is important for them because "it will serve as a force to strengthen those of us who have already met the challenge of prejudice and competition in our chosen field, and will act as a stimulus to attract to our numbers women of skill who may have had doubts about choosing dentistry as a career".."
I did not know there was prejudice any longer in any profession where women were able to prove their competence, and I am delighted, therefore, that this bulletin, which will have its inaugural issue in about three weeks, will be of help in clearing away one more barrier.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
