
                  
                     SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.SAN FRANCISCO
                  —I forgot to mention in my column yesterday that on Saturday afternoon, before the evening wedding of my granddaughter, Chandler, we all went over after lunch to see her presentpresents.
She was receiving many telegrams, all of which gave her a great deal of pleasure and made her realize that all of those who could not be with her were thinking of her on this important day.
Her presents really were beautiful and numerous, because of the large size of both families and of the many friends of the parents and of the young people themselves.
They are going to live in Midland, Tex., in a small four-room apartment, so I doubt if she will have room for all these presents now, but they can be put away for future use. And I am sure that her mother will be glad when she gets all the gifts divided and packed and can return her own house to its usual living conditions!
To have one daughter to marry off is very pleasant and an experience everyone should enjoy, in spite of the family unheavalupheaval. But when I realize that my son, John, will have three daughters to take up the aisle and that Anne will have three weddings to arrange, I can only hope she will become accustomed to it and have it all systematized so that it will not be as much of a commotion as it seems with just one.
On Sunday I flew with Elliott and MinewaMinnewa, Tony and Rexie to Dallas in Elliott's small plane. This was my first experience of flying with my son and he seems to be a very good pilot.
Bill supposedly was flying right behind us in his plane, but he did not arrive with us, since everyone had forgotten to tell him at what field to come in. And I noticed that Elliott showed signs of real disturbance when Bill did not appear immediately. However, he eventually found us at Mr. Lindsley Sr.'s home.
This is a most delightful Texas house built around a patio with a beautiful pool in the center. We had a buffet luncheon, which we ate around the pool, and then Rexie was the first to be put on his plane for Phoenix.
After this I departed and my plane brought me into San Francisco at 7:30 p.m. Sunday. There I was met by my old friendsfriend, Mrs. Edward Macauley, and I went straight to the St. Francis Hotel where Patricia Baillargeon was waiting for me. There, I also found envelopes of mail for me, so after having dinner I settled down to doing a little signing and marking of mail to be forwarded back to New York.
Monday morning my niece, Diana Roosevelt Jaicks, and her husband had breakfast with me. Then I did some work and visited two of my favorite shops in San Francisco, Suey Chong in Chinatown and Gumps. At 12:30 p.m. Mrs. Henry Grady and Admiral and Mrs. MacaulayMacauley came for lunch with me before I took a 3:25 p.m. plane for Medford, Ore. That trip I will tell you about tomorrow.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
