
                  
                     NEW YORK.—On my recent trip overseas we spent four very busy and happy days in Paris. On our first day we were fortunate enough to have sunny weather, and the party divided up and took two cars and drove to Chartres. Mr. Abba Schwartz drove the younger members and Mr. Abris Silberman of the Silberman Galleries in New York, who happened to be in Paris that day, joined us. He added much to our appreciation of the beauties of the magnificent Gothic cathedral of Notre Dame.
I have been there so often that I know exactly what I want to look at, but the younger ones were taught a great deal by having someone with real knowledge with us, and I was glad it was sunny for this gave the windows their special brilliance of color.
Then we went to the little village of Jouy, where there is a little farm restaurant that serves an excellent lunch. We found that we were expected, but Madame rushed out to say that her son was being married that day and the wedding party was going on in the large room where guests are usually entertained in cold weather. The young couple was charming—the girl was tall, with dark eyes and hair and a lovely expression, and the boy was handsome and confident. For a few minutes we became almost a part of the wedding party, and then we were taken off and served a delightful luncheon.
We drove back along the river road, which I think is particularly lovely, and I thought our day was a great success.
Unfortunately, we were not able to have sun for our visit to the St. Chapelle, but when we went to the Louvre we had Mr. Silberman with us again and that added enormously to our pleasure and our instruction.
I have never visited so many different restaurants as I visited this short stay in Paris—all with delicious food and much too much of it. My preference, above all, is for Les Porquerolles, but we missed seeing our hostess there as she, like so many Parisians, was still off on Easter vacation. We enjoyed the good food, however, and now I must diet!
The afternoon before we left we went to a reception at our American Embassy, and I was pleasantly surprised to find Mr. and Mrs. Henry Morgenthau Jr. there. They left that night, but it was wonderful to see them again after our early morning visit in Teheran.
We saw many friends at the Embassy, and Mr. and Mrs. Art Buchwald, who are friends of my cousin, Mrs. W. Forbes Morgan, went to dinner with us that night. I enjoyed hearing Mr. Buchwald's impressions of some of the places that we had visited also.
Altogether, I think we managed to give the young people with us some of the flavor of Paris. They will have many more opportunities to go back and enjoy each time more deeply the things that particularly appeal to them.
(Copyright, 1959, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
