
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday—Here we are at Thanksgiving Day again.
So far as I am personally concerned, I have much to be thankful for. I have been busier than ever this past year and I have seen much of the world which I had never seen before. It is an enriching experience to see the world and it seems to me that every opportunity one gets to visit new places and to know new people broadens one's horizon and deepens one's understanding.
I met some very interesting and fine people this year and for that I am very grateful. I would put the privilege of knowing Prime Minister Nehru and Ambassador Chester Bowles very high on my list of blessings.
For our country as a whole I am thankful that we have played an important part in limiting the war to a small portion of the earth's surface. Much as we grieve that the war in Korea has not come to an end, still we must give thanks that a world-wideworldwide war has not been inflamed.
The United States and it people are economically strong. We have come though a hard-fought election and our democratic processes have functioned well. To accept defeat gracefully is part of the good sportsmanship that we admire in this country and no one could have accepted it with more grace than did the Democratic candidate for president, Governor Adlai Stevenson.
I think I am as thankful for the good things I have seen in the national and international areas of the world as for the personal things, because what happens in one country and to the world touches on the lives of each of us.
One of the things for which I am extremely thankful personally is the fact that three of my grandchildren, who had light cases of polio, came through with no permanent bad effects. It would be a great blessing if the research, which is now going, could prove so successful that all children could come through this disease with the certainty that there would be no permanent ill effects. One of the most frightening things to parents today is when polio strikes.
