
                  
                     LONDON, 
                  1951-04-15Sunday—I said goodbye to my cottage and my dogs on Thursday at Hyde Park. It is always a wrench to leave home and try to explain to wistful little Scotties that I am not deserting them for good. I wish one could be sure that one's dogs understood what is said, for then they would know that sooner or later their family would be home again to look after them!
The afternoon in New York City was taken up by last-minute visitors, and in the evening I had the pleasure of going to a concert at the Labor Temple where Nemone Balfour Gurewitsch sang. This seemed a very pleasant way to spend my last evening in the United States. Friday morning was filled with last-minute errands. John Golden came to lunch and insisted on seeing us off on the plane. My son, Elliott, and his wife will join us later for a few days and that will be a pleasant break and bring us news from home.
We will be gone only for the five-week session of the Human Rights Commission in Geneva and I hope to be back toward the latter part of May. It will be beautiful in Geneva, but Miss Thompson and I grieve at leaving home at this time of the year which is among the lovliest seasons in this country. The anemones are already making little carpets of purple and white in the woods, and I am afraid we will miss entirely the beauty of the lilacs and the dogwood, two of my favorite flowers. Perhaps I shall be lucky and spring will stay consistently cool, so I may get home in time to see the tag end of all these beauties. I will surely see in and around Geneva lovely spring flowers and the forests just putting on their spring foliage.
My main concern over here, of course, will be to get on with the work assigned to us by the General Assembly in producing a covenant to present to the Economic and Social Council at its next meeting. I hope this work can be successfully accomplished, and if it is I hope that we, in the United States, will make every effort to ratify the covenant as soon as possible. Our lack of action on the Genocide Convention has, I think, made many people in the world wonder whether it is possible for us to understand the intent of a humanitarian document and to accept it without fear that it will step on our own toes in some of our domestic situations. This is unfortunate, for our leadership in the humanitarian field should be unblemished and the world should be able to count on our cooperation in every thing that is for the good of humanity as a whole.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1951, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
