NEW YORK.—After the Charter Day meeting of the new Southern California University on Tuesday evening, I thought back over my days and realized that I had succeeded in seeing a good many of my friends.
First, there were Mrs. Hershey Martin and my son James in Los Angeles on Monday. Then Mr. and Mrs. Irving Salomon were kind enough to have Mr. and Mrs. Charles McIlwraith, my friends from Beacon, N.Y., to lunch on Tuesday. They came to the lecture in the evening and brought their son and daughter. It is only when I see a boy whom I knew as a little fellow suddenly grown to be a man six feet four inches tall that I realize how fast the years go by.
I also had the pleasure of visiting on Tuesday afternoon with Dr. and Mrs. Harry Friedgood and their two very fine-looking children. Mrs. Friedgood is French and her mother has helped her with the children, so these two young Americans speak only French. They understand English, but they do not yet speak it.
Late Tuesday afternoon I enjoyed a drive over the university campus and saw the Institute of Oceanography, which is the largest institute of its kind in the world. It works on the same problems that Woods Hole, in Massachusetts, does on the East Coast. The university has a large grant and will begin to put up its buildings very shortly.
Mrs. Ross McIntire and a young friend from New York who is with her also came to see me on Tuesday afternoon. And Mayor Charles Dail and his wife were kind enough to come and present me with a key to the city.
So, you see, I did not have much time to idle while I was in San Diego.
MAYor Dail has cooperated in a remarkable way with the American Association for the United Nations and has presented the organization with a very fine building for its use in the city. Dr. Vernon Gaston and Mr. Salomon assured me that they expect to build the association's strongest chapter there in San Diego. When you get the kind of cooperation the mayor has been able to give, you feel encouraged to go on working doubly hard.
On Wednesday morning Miss Maureen Corr and I left at 9:15 for Salt Lake City, with a change in Las Vegas. To my surprise, newspapermen and photographers were at the airport, and then I realized that they probably were there all the time on the chance of seeing some screen or stage celebrity arriving for an engagement. I was just a windfall, and I was able to convince them that I was not staying in Las Vegas but proceeding on to Salt Lake City!
There was a press conference at four o'clock in Salt Lake City, and the arrangements were made for my trip on Thursday to Weber College in Ogden, Utah. Miss Corr left on Wednesday night for New York and I took the same plane on Thursday night after I had filled my commitment in Ogden.
(Copyright, 1960, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
