
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday
                  —I was feeling very sad yesterday afternoon, for at the morning session of Committee #3 at Lake Success, by a vote of 43 to 8, the Australian resolution including amendments that certainly make it a peculiar resolution, was voted. We are to have a Children's Emergency Fund set up with exactly the same organization that it has had in the past. No more formal arrangements than those already implied in the general setup of the United Nations have been spelled out between the specialized agencies and the fund. The expenses of administration will not be included in the regular budget of the United Nations, so that not even that small contribution to the work of the children will be assured from every nation. Mr. Pate, the director of the Fund, made a statement to the committee that he felt sure that in the administration of it he could succeed in meeting all the points of view that had been expressed! I am very much afraid that he is slightly over—optimisticover optimistic.
To be sure, the accepted amendment extends the fund under its present setup for another three years and then suggests that it shall be made permanent. The crucial point that nobody had really faced was where the money for the fund is to be found.
Our Congress has stated that it would consider a permanent arrangement to begin to cope with the continuing needs of children throughout the world. Whether it will consider this rather strangely amalgamated resolution as a permanent arrangement or not remains to be seen. I am sure that the United States Government will continue to help not only in Korea but in emergencies anywhere in the world. But I am not sure that it is going to think that an emergency setup can cope with the vast problems of doing something tangible toward ameliorating needs of children on a world-wideworldwide basis. I felt a little at the end of the morning session the way I do after I have been at a funeral—and that is never a very pleasant feeling.
At the afternoon session we took up the report of the Economic and Social Council on the Covenant of Human Rights, which was submitted to them by the Human Rights Commission. We have known ever since Friday that that would be the next item on our agenda, but by four o'clock there were no other speakers on the chairman's list. They all wanted to speak at our next meeting this afternoon, and adjournment was practically indicated, though it seemed to me we might have proceeded to one of the other four points presented to us for discussion.
Certain delegations, however, seem always very glad to adjourn. They do not seem to be able to look ahead a bit and realize that moving slowly now means either a terrific pressure of work in the last few weeks as well as night meetings or else unfinished work. Anyway, we still are not laboring under any sense of the pressure of time in Committee #3.
I came home with great joy, however, since I was going to record all evening and it was certainly pleasant to have time to do some of my other work and to dinnerdine peacefully and quietly.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
