
                  
                     BEVERLY HILLS, Calif.
                  —I told you that whenever I visit my daughter-in-law, Mrs. Elliott Roosevelt, I get some new ideas on house decoration. On my last visit, it was her linen closet that made me envious and a kind gentleman has since given me a perfectly wonderful linen closet at Hyde Park which I enjoy every day when I am there.
This time Minnewa and Elliott have built a guest house on the other side of their patio. It looks out on the little swimming pool in the patio. On the other side, it looks out on the croquet court and the orange grove.
At this season all the oranges are ripe and it was simply lovely, but what fascinated me was the daring colors that my daughter-in-law used and which, to my complete surprise, harmonized beautifully. As draperies in the bedroom, she has a most beautiful cotton print of Persian design in which orange and pink are blended with many other colors, and she has carried out the colors throughout in orange and pink. It sounds impossible as a combination, but it is really very beautiful.
There is a living room with two couches, which can be turned into beds overnight, and a lovely open fireplace, a little cubbyhole well stacked with glasses and drinkables, plenty of closet space, and a good bathroom.
The one thing that troubled my daughter-in-law was that the bathtub might be a little small. I found I could fold into it quite comfortably, so I think no one else will have any trouble!
Then there is a big bedroom, again with plenty of closet space and those wonderful Persian draperies, and a black chest of drawers which give the right accent to the whole room.
I told my daughter-in-law that building and decorating are her creative outlet and she acknowledgeS that she enjoys it more than anything else. She has also turned one of the rooms in her own house into a dining room which, when the portraits of their ancestors come back reframed, will be lovely and interesting. Since I was last in Scottsdale, Ariz., Minnewa's portrait has been painted and I like it very 
She and Elliott flew me in their plane to Tucson right after lunch on Sunday and I had an hour's pleasant meeting in the afternoon at the Arizona Inn with some Democratic women who are anxious to start an active movement to create an interest in the policies suggested by our leadership in the Democratic party.
I wish such groups could be meeting all over the country, for I think they perhaps would give us more active leadership than we have at present.
I want to repeat here, however, that the speech made in Congress by Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas after the launching of the American satellite was a most constructive one. He said something that I think all of us should support, namely, "I would hope that our leaders would give urgent consideration to a proposal for joint exploration of outer space by the United Nations."
I had the great pleasure of dining, before the evening meeting, with Jack Greenway and his sister and brother-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Chuck Braisted. It was such a joy to see again these two children of my old friend, Mrs. Isabella Greenway.
The evening meeting in the university auditorium was packed. They told me the auditorium holds 2,700 people and that a thousand waited on the outside, unable to get in. This was really sad, and I went out to greet them and express my regrets.
I left for Los Angeles early Monday morning and was met by Mrs. Hershey Martin, and together we went to lunch with Mrs. Alphonzo Bell and her son.
In the evening I spoke at the college in Van Nuys, a suburb of Los Angeles, and returned to a gay party at Mrs. Martin's. It was a joy to see some old friends, among them the Danny Kayes and Martin Lencer.
FEBRUARY 7 to 13 marks the 30th anniversary of the Boy Scouts of America. Through all of these past years members of this organization have been doing "good turns" and this year they are going to make their good turns for the first three months emphasize national safety.
By that they mean they will try to prevent all accidents—highway accidents, accidents out of doors and in the home—a very good idea. The Boy Scouts always have our good wishes, and when they do good turns like this, they should have the cooperation of all of us.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
