
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday
                  —On Monday in Hyde Park I attended a meeting of a Hadassah group in Poughkeepsie. Hadassah, as an organization, does so much good work both here and in Israel that it is always a pleasure to meet with its members.
On Thursday I left New York City by plane for Springfield, Massachusetts. From the airport I was driven to Amherst to speak to a convocation at the University of Massachusetts. After lunch I was called for and driven to Deerfield, where the Quota Club was holding an evening meeting at which I spoke on the United Nations.
I had not been in Deerfield for some time but the Academy there has interested me ever since I had the opportunity of meeting the head masterheadmaster and his wife through Mr. and Mrs. Henry Morgenthau Jr., whose boys graduated from Deerfield.
The village, itself, has much that is historically interesting, as well as charming, tree-shaded streets with lovely old homes. I remember going there once to see Diana Hopkins, who went to a boarding school for little girls for a short period, so I feel that this trip was a return to a rather well-known and very beautiful part of our country.
I shall hope to have a glimpse of Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Boyden around tea time, and after the Quota Club meeting in the evening I shall take the night train from Greenfield back to New York City. My object in doing this is to have a full day in New York City on Friday.
The first thing I am to do in the morning is a recording for Democratic Women's Day. I am glad to find that this day continues to be observed and, little by little, I hope the women in the Democratic Party are going to find that they raise more money for their own activities and are therefore more respected by the men of their organizations.
Women are often told that it is unwise for them to raise money separately from the men's organization for one reason or another, but most probably because it takes away from what the men can raise. The men feel they can really raise more money and they are always willing to give to the women's work whatever they think necessary. This sounds plausible, but I do not think it is true.
It is better for the women to work harder to raise their own money, to finance their own expenses, and to run their organizations as they think they should be run.
Men and women should cooperate as much as they can in running various enterprises, particularly in their political parties, but we have not yet reached the point where men are ready to offer women political equality on the higher levels. Until that time comes, women must fight to achieve the kind of organization they think will hold the interest of women and advance the interests of the Democratic Party.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
