
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Tuesday
                  —Recently I have not told you much about my own activities, so I should mention that in the past few days I have been over to the Memorial Library a number of times.
Labor Day weekend is always a time when a great many organizations take the opportunity to come up and see me. The directors of the Kiddie Kamps of Massachusetts, a group that is organized under the auspices of the Knights of PythiusPythias, kindly came to give me an honorary membership in their women's organization, because my husband had been one of their members. They told me what really wonderful work they have done in giving free vacations to young boys who otherwise would not have had any. There is no discrimination in these camps, Jews, Protestants and Catholics join together and it is these youngsters who are learning to be good citizens.
I think all civic organizations deserve mention and acknowledgement of the good work they do, but, unfortunately in the past this has not always been the case. However, I am glad to say that one group in particular which, up till now, has not had as much consideration as it should is rapidly growing in this country today. This is the group of music lovers. In nearly every fair sized community you will find these people hard at work, drawing in new members. I think that music, being the one international language which everybody can understand, should have the support of everyone.
In Poughkeepsie we have a Duchess County Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Ole Windingstad. As a rule they give four concerts during the autumn and winter and they are well worth hearing. I am sure every community which is trying to support its own symphony orchestra will appreciate the need for a larger number of annual subscribers. Here, in Duchess County, we need members in all classes of membership, and, considering the amount of work which the officers and the board of our society have accomplished in the last few years, I hope this will be a banner year in recognition of the need to become supporting members.
Yesterday being Labor Day I was asked by the Poughkeepsie Trade and Labor Council to attend some simple ceremonies at my husband's grave. I met the president of the organization, Mr. Clarence E. Silvernail, and the rest of the delegation. I was grateful to the minister for the very interesting prayer which he delivered.
In spite of the rain on the Sunday before Labor Day there were large crowds visiting the Memorial, and I imagine that the good weather yesterday brought even more.
I had a house full over Labor Day and have enjoyed my guests very much. I feel as though this were my last, long free time in Hyde Park since tomorrow evening I must go to Washington to begin preparations for the United Nations General Assembly session.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
