
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —I still feel a little in a daze after having covered so much territory in so short a time.
Friday morning I left La Guardia Field at 9:10 by plane for Miami, Florida, to speak at the closing night session of the General Federation of Womens' Clubs convention. The drive from Miami along the ocean to the Hollywood Beach Hotel afforded a wonderful sight. I had almost forgotten the different hues, ranging from dark purple to light green, that color the ocean along the Florida coast.
Soon after arrival I had a press conference and then a little talk with Lady Huggins, wife of the Governor of Jamaica. She has formed, as part of the General Federation of Women'sWomens' Clubs, a federation which is made up of women from every group in Jamaica. She is planning now to get a whole group together representing all the women of the Caribbean area, which I believe will be very valuable within the islands. I think there is a great sense of isolation among the women, and to belong to a big federation will give them a variety of interests and a sense of exerting real influence. Lady Huggins has done a great deal in Jamaica to help her husband, and has taken an interest in the literacy campaign and in the general welfare of children. The results of her activities may not show immediately, but there will come a time when what she has done will bear fruit.
The dinner in the evening was a very large one, and the decorations were particularly interesting. Fish nets were run along the edge of the head table over wire. Into the wire flower holders were set long stems, at the end of which were red and white sea urchin shells. On the tables were especially charming favors made out of shells. I came away laden with lovely gifts, most of which I have distributed among the children, to their joy. I also took away a Key West cookbook which I am going to keep in my kitchen, and some of whose recipes I will try in the near future.
After my speech on the Declaration of Human Rights I drove back to Miami to take the plane which, fortunately for me, reached La Guardia Field at 7:21 Saturday morning. I made the 8:10 train to Poughkeepsie, and was settled here again as though I had never been away when my guests from Committee Three of the United Nations General Assembly appeared for luncheon. Fortunately the day could not have been more lovely. It has been too dry here, but that made it easier for people to sit on the grass. Everyone seemed to enjoy the sunshine, and I enjoyed having my colleagues with me up here. A few people lost their way and arrived late, but I hope everyone got enough to eat. They stayed fairly late in the afternoon, and after dinner I found I was quite ready to go to bed to make up for the rather short hours of sleep I had on the plane Friday night.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1949, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
