
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Friday
                  —While I was in Geneva there came to me an appeal to do something when I returned to America to try to acquaint people who had known Emil Ludwig, the writer and historian, with the fact that he had left his widow so little of this world's goods that she was in danger of losing their old place in Switzerland. The person who telephoned me said that the writer's widow was in need of help in order that she might keep one little house and a tiny bit of land on the old estate, where she could give shelter and care to her mother, who is over 90, and to a greatly handicapped son.
Just before he died, Emil Ludwig wrote his memoirs and perhaps they will shortly be published. This would give some measure of relief. But any people who have enjoyed his books and are anxious to help, can send their help direct to Mrs. Emil Ludwig, Moscia, Cantonne, Ticino, Switzerland. During his life, I am told by a friend of his, Mrs. Marsh Allen of Santa Monica, Calif., who has written me about him, Emil Ludwig was a generous man, giving to all who asked his help. She says he was one of the kindest men she ever met. So, perhaps those who knew him in this country can now make some small return. He left Switzerland during the war because Switzerland was neutral, and he came to this country to help the Allied cause by lecturing, broadcasting and using his pen to acquaint his readers with the issues that were at stake.
I didn't know Mr. Ludwig well. He came to see us once or twice when he was writing a book about my husband, and those were occasions on which I met him. He certainly worked hard and he must have made some good friends both in Switzerland and here, for his widow and her plight have been brought to my attention by appeals in both countries.
In a letter that came to me the other day I was asked whether Communist China and Nationalist China could both become members of the United Nations. It was pointed out that the Soviet Union and its satellites are all represented. I would like to explain here that Russia and its satellites are on good terms with one another, whereas Red China and Nationalist China are rivals. Both want to govern the same people in the same area.
In addition, at this moment Red China is an aggressor nation and still refuses to show any signs that she will live up to the obligations of a member state under the U.N. Charter.
However, if the Chinese Communist government could establish that it is the only government of China and that it can live up to the peaceful obligations imposed under the Charter, then the application can be considered. There will, however, then be only one government of China and not two claimants insisting on representing China as a whole.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1951, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
