
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —This country is happy to be visited by the courageous Emperor of Ethiopia, Haile Selassie, and to entertain him as an honored guest.
Older people will remember his passionate plea to the League of Nations for the protection of his country against the invading Italian forces in 1935. And it will also be remembered that Ethiopia sent its contingent of soldiers to Korea. The Ethiopians were among the finest groups of soldiers who visited the United Nations General Assembly in Paris in 1951 to be congratulated by that body for their services in Korea.
In my short address to them at that time, I quoted from a speech made to them by Emperor Haile Selassie when they left for the front. It was one of the finest statements I had read of the purpose for which the U.N. was fighting in Korea, and it held high standards up for these soldiers to live by.
I hope those who greet the Emperor here will remember the fine record of his soldiers in Korea, when they fought side by side with our own men.
Ethiopia is largely a Christian country, with religious traditions going back to the earliest days of Christianity. Our citizens will be anxious to learn more of conditions in the Emperor's country and of the ways in which our two countries can cooperate for the improvement of world conditions.
In one of our New York newspapers not long ago, there was a most interesting survey of international programs of technical cooperation and assistance among 79 countries. This combination of programs is partly financed by the countries themselves, partly covered by U.N. contributions; and technical assistance is granted by developed nations like ours. The areas of the world covered are Asia and the Pacific, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Europe.
Anyone who read this careful account must have been impressed by the work that is being done on a wide scale to raise the standard of living in countries throughout the world. I hope that this survey will reach many of our citizens and give them the satisfaction that comes from a real accomplishment.
Ethiopia has had 30 technical assistants from the United States, and 8 from the U.N. The only other country in Africa to receive such aid from the U.S. has been Liberia, with 59 technical assistants from here, and 23 from the U.N.
The charts accompanying the survey are well worth studying, covering the varied aid received in many areas. India, for example, has increased its food output by 5,000,000 tons through technical cooperation and aid.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
