
                  
                     WASHINGTON.—I had the pleasure Thursday morning of meeting for a few minutes with Mrs. Anna Rosenberg, Thomas Finletter, and Adlai Stevenson.
How any man can go through a primary election campaign, a party convention, and then even a shortened election campaign against the opposing party is a miracle to me. I am glad my husband did not have to campaign in these primaries.
Somehow it seems difficult to fight with real pleasure against members of your own party whom you hope to unify and, in the end, to fight together against the real opposition.
I attended a meeting of the Columbia branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to discuss civil rights. The meeting, on Thursday, ran from 12 to 1 o'clock at Columbia University.
In the morning, I attended a meeting sponsored by the Committee on Correspondence. Women were brought there from a number of different countries to study matters of interest to them in the United States and in the United Nations.
I found them a most interesting group as we discussed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the possibility of the Covenants on Human Rights.
I wish I could see more of this group of women, for it seems to me to be particularly worth-whileworthwile. These visits by women from far-away farawaycountries should be utilized to as great an extent as possible so that they may meet the women of the U.S., tell them about their countries and better become acquainted with conditions in this country.
I was interested in onFriday morning to have two Pakistani newspaper mennewspapermen call on me and to find that they were enjoying their contacts in this country very much and looking forward to trips which will take them all the way out to the Coast.
I hope they will come in contact with American homes and thereby take back to their country a more realistic impression of the way families actually live in the U.S.
In so many countries of the Near and Far East, the only knowledge of the life of our people comes to them through the movies, and which are not exactly representative of real life.
I have just read with a great deal of interest and pleasure a book by Cynthia Bowles called "At Home In India." It presents such an interesting and appealing picture of life in India, which this young woman came to know so well, that I wish there might be some people visiting us who would write the same kind of book on American life for use in countries like India and Indonesia.
The chief news on Friday was that Mr. Richard Nixon would run again with President Eisenhower for the Vice-Presidency. This means, of course, that every voting citizen should have in mind the possibility that the Vice-President may be the President. While this should always be in the mind of the voter, it is especially necessary under present conditions.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
