
                  
                     WASHINGTON
                  —I have had time now to read the many messages that have come from the leaders of nations throughout the world. To many of them I think their burdens are going to seem heavier because the man who seemed able to understand their countries and their people has been removed from the world scene.
Prime Minister Churchill's tribute to my husband before the houseHouse of commonsCommons was one of personal feeling as well as an expression of public sentiment. The two men had worked so closely together since the war began, that a personal feeling was bound to grow up between them. As a family, we are grateful for all Mr. Churchill said.
I think, too, there was a sense of trust and understanding developing even among the leaders who saw my husband less often. To a great extent this arose from his intimate knowledge of history, his never-ending curiosity about the way other people lived and thought, and his Innate friendliness.
I remember how we laughed at my husband one night when, in talking of the future and the problems which would arise for various countries, he mentioned a certain part of the world and, with a twinkle in his eye, remarked: "When I am through here, we might go out there and help them solve some of their problems. I really think I know more about them than they do. I have been studying them very closely for the last few years."
We told him we thought he might like to enjoy life for a few years without responsibility and that we certainly didn't see why he wanted to be in the midst of new and perplexing problems. With very characteristic emphasis, he turned to me and said: "I like to be where things are growing."
That made me remember something he had said some years ago, when we first took a look at the Grand Canyon. I thought it the most beautiful, and majestic sight I had ever seen, but my husband said: "No, it looks dead. I like my green trees at Hyde Park better. They are alive and growing."
That sense of continuing growth and development was always keenly present with him. He never liked to dwell on the past, always wanted to go forward.
It is heartening to see President Truman moving toward the same type of support and confidence which sustained my husband in all he did. There is no question that President Truman, because of his attitude, will command the friendship and loyalty of the men who were closely associated with my husband.
