
                  EN ROUTE TO MOROCCO.
                  —Cuba seems to have had considerable difficulty in recent days in keeping peace within her own country. It is as difficult, it seems, to establish peace within a country as it is to keep it between countries.
Perhaps the truth of it is that we must want to live in peace at home before we can translate this desire for peace in the world into practice.
I often am amused to find that organizations with the same objective—it may even be peace ofin the world—are at daggers drawn. Their officers do not speak to each other; they think the other group does nothing the way it should be done, and anything but peace exists.
Perhaps peace in the world starts in one's own heart and will become a reality only when innumerable people throughout the world find peace within themselves. Only then will they manage to work peacefully with their neighbors, creating an atmosphere and attitude that will spread throughout the world.
The President seems to have been the first one to suffer from his suggestion that Congress cut the Federal budget. His request for $5 billion in emergency funds for national defense was cut to $4 billion, and White House funds for executive office expenditures were cut by several million.
In his press conference last week, the President complained that the American people had become accustomed to depending upon the Federal government and added that they seem to think the "Federal treasury is a bottomless well." Some people in the West may agree to this, but I am not so sure people in general feel this way.
I read in a Midwestern newspaper that a member of the Nebraska Legislature felt that Federal grants were adding tremendously to that state's budget and that the Legislature was requesting the Federal government not to offer these grants.
Sometimes it looks as if those who depend the most upon the Federal government are not the ordinary citizens but the great corporations. For instance, an advertisement by the American Iron and Steel Institute in a metropolitan newspaper complained that "Federal tax laws make no allowance for the effects of inflation."
"Under these laws," the advertisement stated, "an industrial company is allowed in theory to save up enough money over the life of a piece of equipment to replace it when it wears out." But,out. "But, it continued, "because of inflation the cost of this replacement often is much higher."
For this reason, the advertisement's sponsors said, industry should be allowed a reduction in taxes.
I sometimes wonder if it ever occurs to a big corporation that the small people, who are its customers, pay for inflation in higher prices and get no reduction of any kind from the Federal government.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
