
                  
                     EN ROUTE TO BRUSSELSmissingerpp, Belgium
                  —President Eisenhower has suggested a far-reaching three-point plan to bolster the non-Communist world's economic position. It is spoken of as the way to meet Russia's stepped-up aid to underdeveloped and uncommitted countries.
I wish we could do things because we think they are right without regard to what Russia may be doing. I wish no could take the initiative more than we do. Mr. Eisenhower's suggestion would be an excellent plan if Russia were doing nothing in this area.
If this plan goes through it will increase the working capital of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It will increase the capital quotas and, therefore, the working funds of the International Monetary Fund. It also will create a new international development association, which will foster the economic development and growth of the underdeveloped countries of the world.
This plan evidently has been suggested to meet the commitments we may be asked to make in the Middle East and other areas of the world, and it seems to me to be an essential plan to put forward at this time.
The contests for governor and Senator in New York State this fall promise to be very lively. Nelson A. Rockefeller, candidate for governor, was instrumental in choosing Rep. Kenneth B. Keating of Rochester to run for the Senate, and this GOP ticket must be attractive to the Republican party as a whole. Governor Averell Harriman will have Manhattan District Attorney Frank S. Hogan as a running mate. So with both parties having their candidates chosen by the party leaders there should be on both sides machine support for the candidates.
I should think the campaign in New York State will be waged energetically this year, since both parties will feel they must work hard for the election. The independent vote is growing, and there is little doubt in my mind that one has to count on persuading many people during the campaign as to where one stands, for traditional party voting cannot be counted on today in the way it was in the past.
I want to be a little frivolous and say that I have been scanning the newspapers for pictures of the new fashions. All I can say, though, is that it is very important for each and everyone of us if we are slim to stay slim, and if we are not slim to go right on a diet.
The new fashions, it seems to me, are difficult to wear, and will look impossible on the middle aged, elderly, and stoutish ladies. In the field of fashion we are catering particularly to the young, and that is the way it should be.
We older folk had better learn to fall back on the hope that with our years we have acquired a little knowledge and experience that may make us pleasant companions for brief periods in spite of the fact that we may not be able to wear the latest fashions!
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
