
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I don't know how you feel about it, but shooting all these new satellites into space and having them wandering around is beginning to make me feel that we are perhaps going to have unexpected developments! Man is interfering with whatever coordinated plan there may be in the present natural universe.
I am glad for the Navy that it has succeeded in putting its satellite into orbit, and I am sure it must be an exciting thing to feel that you have started something out into space that will probably stay there five to 10 years and register temperatures and other scientific data. I hope we find all the information of value. But if all the nations begin to have little and big balls circling around in space, it may become rather crowded!
I am particularly glad to see that our good offices with the able mediation of Robert Murphy, U.S. deputy undersecretary of state, and Harold Beely
                   of the British Foreign Office seem to be bringing about some results in the French-Tunisian crisis.
It will be a very happy thing if understanding can come about between France and the three North African states—Tunisia, Morocco, and Algeria. The state of war in Algeria is costing France a great deal from an economic standpoint, and if somehow a political solution could be found which allowed them to consider the economic situations and to cease the military actions, it would be a tremendous help both to the people of France and to the people of Algeria.
Actually, France is the natural channel through which the relations conducted by these North African states with the rest of the West should flow, but sometimes helpful solutions can be found by more neutral people who are not quite so close to the situation. I hope that both the Americans and the British can be useful in this situation.
I think it would be well if the Mayor of New York, Robert F. Wagner, would appoint a free committee of fine citizens not only to look into his Bureau of Real Estate, but into any other group in the city government which might be temped to accept political influence in its work.
I have been hearing disquieting rumors about people having had suggestions made to them of ways in which their work should be conducted, and this frequently has to do with ways in which money can be made on the side. It is important, I think, that the Mayor show great diligence in seeing that the city's business is conducted on the highest level without political interference.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
