
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Thursday
                  —I have been asked by Americans United for World Organization to mention the fact that the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has appointed a subcommittee to consider the United States' acceptance of compulsory jurisdiction of the new International Court of Justice, which was created by the United Nations Assembly at their organization meeting in London last winter.
The members of the subcommittee are Senator Elbert D. Thomas of Utah, chairman, Senator Carl A. Hatch of New Mexico, and Senator Warren R. Austin of Vermont. Hearings have been tentatively scheduled to begin in the near future. I am wondering whether Senator Austin's appointment as our permanent member of the United Nations Security Council will mean that some one else will have to be placed on this subcommittee.
In any case, it is of great importance that we, as citizens, let this committee know how we feel on this subject. Personally, it has always seemed to me ridiculous to set up a world court and then not accept compulsory jurisdiction. I wonder how our own courts would function if individuals were able to announce that they did not wish to appear before them. It seems to me that it is essential for the peace of the world that all of us accept compulsory jurisdiction.
It is also essential that the best men, from a legal standpoint, who can be found throughout the world should be members of this court, for no taint of personal prejudice or of interest in any one nation, not even their own, must ever affect the judgement of these men. Only men of such caliber can build confidence in the court and justify the willingness of all nations to accept their decisions.
I am delighted to find that the conversation which Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Gould and I held one winter afternoon in my New York apartment, and which was published at the time, has had a good result. It has brought individuals, groups and communities to the point of adopting not only individuals in Europe who have suffered from the destruction of war, but also whole towns and villages.
One American couple, Mr. and Mrs. Girard Hale, have adopted the little French Village of Maille. This village was devastated by the Germans, and a portion of the population were killed. Mr. and Mrs. Hale are sending regular shipments of the things which they have been notified are most needed, and they hope to put the village back on its feet.
The Belgian Relief organization reported to me that Beaumont, Texas, has adopted Beaumont in Belgium. And another community has adopted another Belgian town. I hope this will be done for towns all over Europe, since I think it will do more to cement friendly relations and create a love for our country among Europeans than anything else we could do.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1946, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
