
                  
                     WINNIPEG, MANITOBAManitoba, Tuesday
                  —A very short time after leaving St. Paul on Sunday night we were conscious of the sudden change in temperature. By 7 o'clock in the morning when I got up to meet the immigration and customs officials I found that snow was on my window sill. It had seeped through both windows, and between the outer and inner window and there was quite a little pile of snow.
The sky was blue above, however, and the sun shone on the white fields. The land is very flat here in Manitoba, and while around Winnipeg they do have diversified farming, one can well see that to the west there must be miles and miles of flat lands for wheat growing. This is one of the most important shipping points.
We came into Winnipeg at 8 o'clock on Monday morning and though we were told it was 22 below it did not feel any colder than an ordinary cold day in the country at Hyde Park. I heard some of the men telling each other to watch out or an ear might turn white, however.
The farms seem far apart to me but the buildings are clustered together and trees are planted all around them. I was surprised not to see more evergreens, since they are the best wind break one can have. Walter H. McKinney, our consul general, tells me that poplars grow well around here but that evergreens do not do as well and this is not Christmas-tree growing country.
I was met at the station by some of the people conducting the Red Cross drive, which opens today in Canada, and they took photographs of the gentleman pinning the Red Cross pin on my coat. March is Red Cross month here just as it is in the United States.
This city must be a very thriving business center, for Mr. McKinney tells me that the list of articles shipped through here is very varied and the volume very great. Furs, cattle, meat, wheat, and ores of different kinds, which come from further north in the Hudson Bay district, form the bulk of the shipments.
This is my first glimpse of this part of Canada. The Eastern part I know well, but one gets a greater sense of potentialities for development here amid the vast open spaces, which resemble our own plains and western areas. Tomorrow I will tell you more about my activities here.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1949, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
