
                  
                     NEW YORK, Wednesday
                  —It is a very sad thing when nature goes on the rampage and people are quite helpless to do anything against the forces thus unloosed.
In the State of Texas, Waco and San Angelo have both suffered. Texas was notified ahead of time, but there is very little you can do except batten down all possible buildings and wait for the strike of the wind.
This is one of the cases where the Red Cross is called in at once and we have to count on the Red Cross to give the aid which is always sorely needed in a catastrophe of this kind.
Our own government may not be hopeful on the question of Four Power talks as suggested by Mr. Churchill but apparently such a reunion of top people meets with approval in Europe. That is because Europe is so much nearer to the Soviet Union. They would give almost anything for a reassuring announcement, being certain that if the Soviets ever attack, they will be the first victims.
From our own point of view, I saw the possibility that it might be hard to meet with the Soviets just now because nobody knows who is the top man, but perhaps it will be a long time before the Soviets decide on any top man and we may have to get accustomed to dealing with a group of men.
I have a feeling that it may be time for a top man meeting, but I do realize all the difficulties that center around such an undertaking. It is quite a different matter for someone outside than it is for a person who actually has to carry the ball.
I had a letter the other day from a member of the Oregon Legislature which tells me that they have passed a bill allowing mothers of low income to deduct $60.00 a month from their gross income if it is spent for child care and baby sitters during the hours they are employed.
It seems to me this law might be one worth considering in other states since it is very evident that a working mother, and there are many who have full responsibility for one or more children, has as much right to deduct this child care expense as a man to deduct for business expenses.
The Oregon law, of course, pertains only to state taxes and there is no law that touches the federal taxes, and yet I think this very essential. Some deduction should be allowed on the federal taxes as well as on the state.
Revisions in a number of matters of this kind should, I think, be taken up and carefully acted upon. Just as I spoke of some of the changes that are necessary in the old age assistance law, I think there are changes which should be made in many other areas, but only after careful study.
I have a feeling that some people would like to wipe out all social aid of this kind. That is far from my intention as I think one of the greatest achievements in the past few years has been our progress in social legislation. Progress always means watching how things work and trying to make sure that the objective is accomplished for which certain things were undertaken.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC, REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
