
                  
                     NEW YORK, Wednesday
                  —I was much interested in Middletown, N.Y., the other night to learn something about the new setup of these county colleges. The Orange County Community College in Middletown is only a two-year college and it is largely attended by young people from the neighborhood that would not otherwise be able to attend college, simply because they could not afford to be away from home. Some young people come from Dutchess County, a few from New York City, even, and they go on from here to finishing courses in the ministry and engineering, etc., besides having a liberal arts education for their first two years here.
Their international club, for which I spoke, seemed to me interested and active and they wanted to do things, not just to talk about them.
The Washington Post author's luncheon in Washington recently was a very pleasant party for me. I asked what I was to talk about and I was told I was there to sell my book, "India and the Awakening East," just as Gordon Dean was there to sell his book on atomic energy and Mrs. Eugene Meyer was there to sell her autobiography "Out of These Roots".."
Mrs. Meyer spoke of the fact, both at noon and at the booksellers dinner in the evening which we attended together, that once we were enemies and now we are friends. She pointed out that over the years we had found we had more in common than we had to divide us. Perhaps, she added, that was what we should try to discover as nations, those things we have in common instead of those things that tear us apart.
I was sent a column the other day by a gentleman which he had clipped from a paper and felt was very convincing. The column was written by Benjamin Mandel, a former research director of the House Un-American Activities Committee and at present a member of the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee. Mr. Mandel was writing as a guest columnist for Mr. C. Brown.
Mr. Mandel in his column took all liberals and intellectuals to task for sitting in judgment on Congressional committees investigating Communist activities. Most of the column pointed out the "faults of liberals" and of course, being human beings, I don't suppose they are perfect but it seemed to me this column was very slanted in its reasoning.
Unquestionably, critical self-examination should be of value to liberals and intellectuals, but I have no doubt it would be of value to those who conduct Congressional investigations also.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
