
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Tuesday
                  —Yesterday afternoon I went over to the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library to see a movie that had been made in the house and included some of the things in the collections at the library. It seemed to me that this might have been made somewhat more interesting and that some of the shots might be clearer. I doubt very much if anyone can really see the bassinet which my husband used as a baby and which some of my children subsequently used. However, on the whole I think the picture will be of interest.
Mr. Paul Rust, who owns the Amberjack II, in which I think my husband took two cruises after he became President, sent me a film called, "My Skipper," which I also viewed. This was really very well done and I think is a great addition to the library's collection. We all watched it with great enthusiasm.
There was also a family film belonging to Mrs. Alexander Grant, my husband's first cousin, which is valuable. While there is no sound track it shows very clearly pictures of his two aunts, older sisters of my mother-in-law, Mrs. Dora Forbes and Mrs. Annie Hitch. His uncle, Frederick Delano, with some of his grandchildren, also appears, and there are two very good pictures of my husband with his mother at Algonac, the old house in Newburgh. This also will be a valued addition to the library collection. A copy of the original is being made, so that the original may be returned to Mrs. Grant.
The Surgeon-General of the U.S. Public Health Service, Dr. Leonard Scheele, and Mrs. Scheele arrived in the afternoon to spend the night. The Vassar Brothers Hospital Association gave its annual dinner last night and was very happy to get Dr. Scheele as our speaker. It turned out that he knew Vassar Brothers Hospital and had been there before at the time he was doing research in cancer and the hospital was starting its tumor clinic, which has been of great value in this community.
The Vassar Brothers Hospital Association is formed to help the Board of Trustees raise the necessary money to keep the deficit down, which occurs here in the hospitals just as it does in other places. Every year the group has increased its membership and its contribution in cash to the hospital is growing year by year. This shows an added awareness ofon the part of the citizens not only of the city of Poughkeepsie but throughout the county and neighboring counties of the value to them of the hospital services.
Dr. Scheele mentioned that it was hoped rural counties might establish clinics in connection with their hospitals and he was promptly asked how this was to be paid for. He suggested that it be paid for in the same manner that other medical services are paid for.
Evidently, in the back of everyone's mind at any meeting at which a member of doctors are present there is the spectre of compulsory health insurance or socialized medicine. I was amused to see how everyone asked questions about these subjects but didn't want to actually argue the subject by name.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
