
                  
                     ST. LOUIS
                  —We continue to report joyfully in our newspapers new accomplishments that make more dangerous the art of war. We have successfully fired two Polaris missiles from a submerged submarine and hit a mark 1,150 miles away.
I wish we could report at the same time that we are spending as much money trying to build up the various avenues to peace—particularly the United Nations, which is our main hope.
We were indeed fortunate to have the U.N. functioning when from every side there came news of the disruption of law and order in the Congo and Premier Nikita Khrushchev's threat to send in troops if anyone else did.
Fortunately, with the U.N. functioning and as able a man as Dag Hammarskjold as its Secretary General, this organization took prompt action, and we can now hope that things will move along smoothly in the Congo. This will be difficult, however, because even though the U.N. Force has removed the threat of various and sundry troops descending on the area, it must be kept at a strength that enables it to keep order, and this will require help from nations throughout the world.
It is certainly less expensive to put the U.N. Force in the Congo than to undertake the job of preventing other nations from going to war. We are fortunate in having an organization where people with cool heads can control the hotheads.
The Encampment for Citizenship, a group that is celebrating its 10th anniversary, joined me at Hyde Park Thursday noon for its annual picnic. The group of 125 young people, in addition to having mixture from many American racial backgrounds, included some from other countries—France, Holland, Latin American nations, and probably more. It was interesting to answer their questions about the Democratic convention and American politics in general.
Later in the day I went down to New York City to attend a meeting of "Y" students at Union Theological Seminary, from where I went to a meeting in Harlem of the Reform Democratic group.
I left New York at an early hour Friday morning to catch a plane to Washington for briefings at the State Department in preparation for the meeting in Warsaw, Poland, of the World Federation of United Nations Associations.
Our American Association for the U.N. is not in any way controlled by the government, but we always ask for the privilege of being informed on any situation that may exist in a country to which we will send delegates. We feel that as citizens we should be cognizant of such a situation and that it helps us in discussions with the various U.N. associations represented there.
I think this was the last meeting of the American delegation to the Warsaw conference, and so, even though Washington is hot in July, most of us made an effort to be there. I was home as early as possible in the afternoon, since today I had to fly here to St. Louis to attend some Democratic meetings for Congressman A.S.J. Carnahan.
(Copyright, 1960, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
