
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —On Saturday evening the Roosevelt Home Club held its annual banquet in the Franklin D. Roosevelt High School. The Honorable Herbert C. Pell and my son, Franklin Jr., were there to speak and the room was filled with people some of whom could remember the old days when this club came into being.
It is a group of friends and neighbors now who want to keep the memory of their old neighbor, Franklin D. Roosevelt, alive by these gatheringgatherings in the home area. I hope they will long continue because of the warmth of neighborliness which he would have enjoyed and which always results from these gatherings of friends who fundamentally think alike on the problems of today just as they did in the past.
I have just had a letter from Mrs. Henry F. Grady, the wife of our Ambassador to Greece who has, I think, one of the warmest hearts in the world. She writes of the Save the Children Federation and asks me to tell my readers that there is an emergency campaign being carried on by this federation for the special purpose of saving the children of Greece.
World War II brought much devastation to the towns and villages of Greece. Their fight since then against Communist-induced uprisings has meant for them a continuous struggle which has prevented the achievement of the standard of recovery that would have made life easier for the people. As a result of these years of unrest and war, countless children are homeless, fatherless, undernourished and poorly clad. I know our country will respond and help this work which helps the children of Greece.
There is still work to be done, however, to urge those countries that have not yet been able to return to Greece her children. These children were removed from the war areas during the troubled times that are now past, so, quite naturally, Greece desires them brought back in their own land. It seems unthinkable that countries that have themselves suffered from the cruelty of invasion and the removal of their own children should not make every effort in this case to send children home as soon as possible. The Red Cross and other organizations, I am sure, stand ready to give all possible aid.
General David Sarnoff and I were honored by the AnitAnti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith and The American JowishJewish Committee by being given awards for public service last Sunday on my television program.
I must say that it makes me feel extremely humble to be told that I have done things which I frequently am not conscious of having done at all. But I do feel that General Sarnoff, both in his  personal capacity and through his organization, has done a great deal to help clarify the atmosphere in relation to many causes that might not otherwise have had an opportunity to be understood.
Back in Hyde Park on Sunday in time for supper and on Monday I had the great pleasure of greeting the President of Chile and Senora de Gonzales Videla when they came to visit Hyde Park and to lunch with me.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
