
                  
                     BELLINGHAM, Wash.
                  —On Sunday we left New York around noon and had an uneventful and very good flight to Seattle, arriving exactly on time. It was clear and beautiful weather, though when we left New York the wind was blowing very hard. Out here it seems very warm in comparison to New York and everyone seemed to enjoy a clear day Sunday since they have had terrible storms all along the West Coast.
We spent the night in Seattle and woke Monday morning to the usual soft rain that is characteristic of this area in winter, though I'm sure no one here would agree with me that this is normal winter weather. I would certainly be told that they really have a great deal of good weather even in winter.
One thing they do have here and that is the possibility of driving only a few hours and finding themselves in the mountains with plenty of snow and sun. So, everyone here can spend their week endsweekends skiing if they feel like it, and then return to the soft, rainy climate nearer the ocean.
The papers are still very flood-conscious here and show pictures of flooded areas in parts of California which were entirely cut off when bridges were washed out. In one picture a plane is shown dropping 500 pounds of food and medical supplies sent by the Red Cross. This relief was made possible by a feat that must have taken considerable courage. Mrs. Joe McAllister, a ranch operator, rode two days on horse-backhorseback through the flooded area to get to a post office so that she could notify the Red Cross of the plight of the ranch and the loss of all its winter supplies.
Last Friday night in New York I had the pleasure of seeing "The Lark," with Julie Harris and Boris Karloff. The play, as adapted by Lillian Hellman, succeeds in creating a remarkable Joan. The simple country girl, so much emphasized, becomes more important spiritually than many of those I have seen before. Julie Harris' acting seemed to me superb and she was well supported by an excellent cast. I think it is an evening one will not forget and one that anyone who enjoys the theatre must surely not miss.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
