
                  
                     NEW YORK.—The Soviet Union's charge that flights of U.S. bombers across the Arctic constitute a danger to peace is a good propaganda move and has been made for that reason alone.
Why we do not foresee the things the Soviets intend to use for propaganda purposes and try to guard against them I do not understand.
I doubt if there is enough to be gained by these particular flights to make them worth the propaganda victory the Soviets will achieve, even if the United States is exonerated by the United Nations, which we probably will be. The first accusation will remain in the minds of people, with the whole benefit in the matter accruing to the Soviets.
I wish very much that we would become as propaganda-minded as the Soviets and occasionally get ahead of them in this field.
I was delighted to see that five Soviet veterans have received U.S. visas to come to Washington and shake hands with the Americans who greeted them at the Elbe River in 1945. This is an opportunity that the Soviet veterans of World War II have been seeking for some time.
When I was in Russia last September these veterans asked if our veterans would not invite them to come over, and they inquired deeply as to what our government did for our disabled veterans. This trip will give them a chance to find out first-hand.
I hope they will have good interpreters and that their time in the U.S. will be well-planned so that they will see real homes in this country and get a real concept of what American family life is like.
I spent Saturday at a conference celebrating the 10th anniversary of the New Lincoln School. It was held at Gould House which, for New York University, is the counterpart of Columbia's Arden House. The subject was "Education Tomorrow."
The chairman was Dr. Lyman Bryson, and the opening session on Friday was greeted by Professor Emeritus William Heard Kilpatrick, chairman of the board of the New Lincoln School. Thomas K. Finletter also gave a stimulating address on the obligations of U.S. citizens to education.
I left here at 8 a.m. with Professor William Van Til and his son and daughter and had the privilege of hearing Professors Mark Zemansky and Louis Raths speak on intellectual competence, the theme of the morning discussion.
I spoke at the lunch and then heard Professor Arthur Bestor, Paul Woodring and President James T. Baxter of Williams College speak on civic and social competence.
This day was one of the most stimulating I have spent in a long time, for there is no subject in this country today as important as education. On that fundamental question I think there is no difference of opinion.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
