
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —Now that I have a little interval before I leave on a short trip to Windsor, Ontario, I should like to tell you a little more about my recent impressions of Maine. Along the coast there had been plenty of rain, and there seemed to be wonderful blueberry crops. The contrast between the green of Maine and the burned-up aspect I had found in Colorado was quite marked.
I have always marvelled at the miraculous way in which Maine people manage. They are a grand, upstanding, thrifty people. But on this visit I did not get the feeling that life was easy. So much of their well-being depends on transients—summer tourists. Cabins have multiplied and some are very attractive. But in talking to a man at one of the garages where we stopped to get gas, we learned that tourist trade has not been as good this year as usual. It has fallen off a good deal this summer.
This was interesting to me because I always contend that our economy is a whole. If any part of our country suffers, sooner or later other parts, no matter how remote, will suffer too. It is a long way from the droughts of Texas, Colorado and the Middle West to the state of Maine—but tourists in Maine come from all over the country.
I had been warned it would be difficult to talk to the people of Maine about the United Nations. I was told that they weren't interested and that, at heart, they were as isolationist as any mid-Westerner could possibly be—this in spite of their background of old-time sea captains who sailed the seven seas and whose purchases on long voyages are still keeping the antique dealers going throughout New England. I need not have worried, however, for in both Castine and Bangor, where I spoke on the United Nations, I had large audiences who were attentive and asked very interesting questions.
I was saddened by the death of my old friend, Mrs. Ruth Bryan Rohde, former Minister to Denmark, who died while she was in Copenhagen to thank King Frederick for a decoration bestowed on her for her friendly services to Denmark. She was William Jennings Bryan's daughter and carried on his interest in peace. She talked to audiences all over this country, and I never knew her to refuse an appeal to help the cause of better understanding among nations. Those who have known her will always be grateful, I think, for the valiant work she has done, not only at home but abroad, in the interest of good willgoodwill among people.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
