
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —The trip back from San Francisco to New York was uneventful but very pleasant. I changed planes in Los Angeles and had a little while there during which my son, Elliott, and his wife came out to the airport and we had a cup of tea together. Then I was off for the night. Coming this way it always seems shorter because you put your watch ahead three hours.
One little incident of the trip amused me greatly, and I wanted to take my hat off to the stewardess for handling it so well.
Two gentlemen across the aisle from me had boarded the plane after very evidently having imbibed a considerable amount of liquor. Then when I noticed one gentleman taking a long drink right out of a bottle he had brought along, I thought to myself, "Well, we may have a little noise and disturbance on this trip." But I was wrong. Even though the gentlemen protested they did not want to eat early and the stewardess seemed to pay special attention to their likes and dislikes, she managed to feed them in half an hour and they calmed down.
Time wore on and as the liquor in the bottle transferred itself to the gentlemen, the stewardess bestirred herself to get them to climb the little ladder into their upper berths. It took some time and persuasion but finally they and the bottle or two were ensconsedensconced for the night and we heard no more of them until morning.
It was a perfect example of good training and tact by the young stewardess.
We arrived in New York on time and the mountain of mail I had expected awaited me. At least I got all the letters signed before leaving at noon for West Point where I spoke to the officers' wives who had been studying the United Nations and international relations through the winter.
They had an extremely interesting question period and then we had a cup of tea with the Commandant, General Frederick A. Irving, and Mrs. Irving.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, by UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.
