
                  
                     HYDE PARK.
                  —There is a very interesting editorial in The New York Times of Wednesday which reports the fact that there has been agreement to postpone legislation for the development of the Upper Colorado Basin until next year.
Those who are interested in conservation will be very anxious to see that the legislation if and when it is adopted, will be much more carefully considered than has been the case so far. Apparently the Echo Park Dam has been eliminated, however. But it might get back unless those who have been watching this legislation continue to do so.
In addition, there are many other points of this proposed legislation that have been attacked. Nobody could oppose the development and use of the Upper Colorado Basin by the Federal government, but the way in which it shall be done has caused a great deal of controversy and will continue to do so. Therefore, it is quite evident that we need careful reconsideration of the legislation.
Often these plans are made without consulting with conservationists who are interested not only in the immediate needs but in the future of the country, and we would do well in the river development to see that the future receives careful attention.
On Monday there will begin in Geneva a new conference between the United States and Communist China. The main objective, of course, is the liberation of American prisoners. The other question that may be considered under the limitations set up for this conference are a cease-fire in the Formosa Strait.
The United States is willing to negotiate on the latter issue because the Chinese Nationalists are observing this cease-fire and contend they are only firing back in self-defense. If this question can be settled, there might come up the question of American recognition of Communist China, in which the Nationalist Chinese government would have a very direct interest.
It would seem to be very difficult, however, for the Communist Chinese to gain U.S. recognition at present, for they do not meet a number of the usual conditions required. The same thing would hold good about recognition and membership in the United Nations, so it does not seem as though there is very much that could come out of the meeting in Geneva—except of course, a freeing of the American prisoners.
In our own country there is a wide division of opinion. In the Congress there are those who want absolutely no conversations held with representatives of Communist China. On the other hand there are others who feel that conversations with the Chinese Communists may be useful, even if there are no concrete results. And this, of course, is bornborne out by the recent meeting at the summit. It is becoming more and more worthwhile just to talk.
It is going to be difficult for the present Administration if there is to be a real investigation of the business affiliations of every man who holds a government job.
No administration has profited so much by the desire of businessmen to be useful in the government, but apparently many of them are not willing to drop all of their business activities, and that may come back to plague them.
These difficulties come up with every administration, but they are apt to be pointed up more frequently in the present one because of the presence of men who are in active business.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
