
                  
                     HYDE PARK.—I wonder if anyone else has felt the loss of his daily newspaper as much as I have felt the loss of mine since the strike began in New York City. I have read my newspaper with breakfast for so many years, and suddenly not to do so is a real deprivation and annoyance.
Of course, I can turn on the radio, but I have not made that a habit, and when I do switch it on I feel that I get so much less coverage than I do in a newspaper. It is impossible in the brief few minutes that most newscasters have to condense the world and local news to a satisfying presentation. It lacks the nice, leisurely feeling one gets in reading one's newspaper.
During the first couple of days of the strike I was fortunate to have someone pick up a copy of my paper from the newspaper office, where they were selling them, but now that not only distribution but printing as well has been stopped, I will miss my newspaper reading. For the next few days I shall know nothing except what comes over the radio while I am here at Hyde Park, and I hope the strike is settled very soon, for it makes so many people unhappy.
I haven't yet mentioned any of the ceremonies marking the Tenth Anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights.
Dr. Charles Malike, president of the General Assembly, called a special meeting of the Assembly in New York and invited M. Rene Cassin and myself to join with him and speak as the two oldest members who had actually begun the work of the Human Rights Commission. M. Cassin was prevented at the last minute from coming to this country, but his speech was sent to the French Ambassador to the United Nations, M. Georges Picot, who read it.
Like many of us, M. Cassin is troubled about the handling of personal petitions to the Human Rights Commission and is hopeful that the new committee that was named to think of ways and means of handling these petitions will come up with some new ideas.
In the evening there was a concert in honor of the tenth anniversary, and Dr. Malik spoke again. The concert gave me an unforgettable evening. Leonard Bernstein conducted the New York Philharmonic and Renata Tebaldi sang.
Miss Tebaldi has a most beautiful voice and is such a charming and delightful person that I enjoyed not only her performance but also just sitting behind and watching her when she became part of the audience and listened to the orchestra play Symphony No. 5 in B Flat Major by Prokofiev.
Mr. Bernstein is a gifted conductor and brings the most out of his orchestra. So, all of us came away, I'm sure, feeling that this particular part of the tenth anniversary of the proclamation would remain in our hearts as one of the events we had enjoyed the right to participate in.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
