
                  
                     GRANVILLE, OhioTuesday.—After a speech in Detroit on Sunday evening we left on a night train for Dayton, Ohio. We had had great luck in Detroit, with blue sky and sun all the day we were there, but on Tuesday in Dayton we got out to find the sky grey and the atmosphere heavy with what might become a snowstorm.
We spent two hours in the station at Dayton and I started reading the manuscript of another book which has been sent to me for comment. I finished one manuscript just before leaving New York and that one was the biography of a man I knew very well. This is the autobiography of a woman whom I don't know well, personally, but she is really only using her own life to tell the story of an organization to which she gave a great many years of her life. Both books have been enjoyable and interesting.
The one I am reading now, however, brings in the names of very controversial figures and I think it is interesting to note that there have been periods before the one we are now passing through when people had suffered because they thought differently from the majority of their fellow citizens at that time. One wonders if they had not been made to suffer but had been treated like other people and allowed to differ and go on about their business whether we would have suffered more as a nation or whether we would on the whole be just about as healthy as we are today.
From Dayton we took a train to Columbus, Ohio, where we were met by Professor and Mrs. Stevens who drove us to Granville, where Denison University is located.
Granville prides itself on being a New England village further west. It was settled by people from New England and still keeps up the habit of the town meeting. The village with its white-painted houses and trees leading down to the business section does look like a New England town and the campus of the university is charming.
I have been told that I will be called for and taken by a group of boys to dine at their club and then to my lecture, after which we will be driven to Newark, Ohio, which is only seven miles away. There we will take the train for Chicago.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
