
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —We are nearing the Christmas holiday season when the Pan American Coffee Bureau always joins with allied industries in supporting the plea by private and safety organizations in emphasizing the value of a good cup of coffee.
They insist that coffee should be the last drink taken by anyone driving home from a party during the holiday season, particularly if the party has been one where alcoholic beverages have been freely dispensed.
Each year I add my voice to the many in urging that the holidays not be marred by accident and that this small measure of prevention be observed. I would like to add, however, that I consider it most important that moderation in the use of all alcoholic beverages be observed during the holiday season.
All over the country the holidays bring an increase in motor traffic, and better and more careful driving should be the aim of every man and woman who takes the responsibility of operating a car on crowded roads, which quite frequently may be snowy and icy.
I went out to dinner one night last week with just a few snowflakes falling, and on my return the streets were already sufficiently covered with snow to be slippery.
From the weather predictions, I gather we will get more snow. This will rejoice the hearts of my grandchildren who think a white Christmas with coasting in Hyde Park is the acme of joy, but it will make driving more dangerous for everyone, and I would like to stress moderation in drinking as well as the value of that final cup of coffee before leaving your parties.
NOVEMBER statistics show more people unemployed than there have been for eight years in this particular month. Eight years ago in November there was a recession, so evidently we have a recession now.
During the last three months non-farm employment has been fairly steady, but it has failed to make the normal autumn upturn, and state unemployment insurance has increased from October to November, according to the Labor Department.
This is true in the major industrial states of New York, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, which have shown large increases, with California running the highest of all in payment of unemployment insurance.
This is a businessman's Administration, but somewhere it seems to be falling down. Perhaps businessmen think you don't have to consider people, that it is enough to think how much money is coming in from your business.
People are important, however, for they do bring in business, so if they are not at work, business is bound to decrease. Therefore, this businessman's Administration had better begin to think about the people.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
