
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —I would like to endorse a suggestion by Walter Lippmann on a new policy for the United States in the Far East.
I do not think we have faced realities for a long time in connection with Formosa and the mainland of China. It seems unrealistic to be unwilling to face the fact that a government we dislike is still apparently a more or less permanent government.
Nobody doubts that changes may come about on the mainland of China, but it looks as though they could be brought about only by the government in power there and not by any outside interference. In the meantime, we support a fiction as far as the representatives of China in the United Nations and the government of Formosa are concerned.
It would be better, it seems to me, if we allowed the Chinese to deal with their own problem. If Formosa desired to remain apart, an independent island under the protection of the U.N., we should, of course, support that desire. But to continue to bolster the military defense of this island does not seem to me a very sensible position.
We seem to have decided that it is sensible to renew our relationships with Spain, to deal with Yugoslavia and with Russia. Therefore, in continuing to act as though 600,000,000 people did not exist in China seems at variance with these other decisions.
Just what the arrangements should be will require careful working out, but to continue our present situation seems unrealistic and harmful, both from the economic and political point of view.
On Wednesday evening I spoke at the Veterans Hospital at 24th Street and First Avenue here to the volunteers who received awards, many of them having given as many as 500 hours of work during 1956 at various volunteer jobs in the hospital.
It is encouraging to find volunteer work now being recognized. That has come about because volunteer workers are now employing standards of the professional in their work. They look upon their jobs as paid ones and carry them through as such.
I was called on the telephone Wednesday evening by my two sons, who felt that I might see in the paper or hear over the radio that they had been in an airplane accident and had been injured.
They, therefore, wished to assure me that while they did have an airplane accident, their entire party of four was intact and was proceeding, with only the airplane left behind for repair. Apparently the runway at Fort Scott was muddy and they struck a hole and skidded through a fence before the plane could stop.
Franklin Jr.'s wife and I were both rather pleased because we thought they would not be flying in a one-motor plane for a few days, but I think that hope is in vain. Small planes have a fascination for my very large sons!
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
