
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Thursday
                  —I received in the mail yesterday some very
interesting material from the Philippines. And, among it, one thing
struck me particularly—the reproduction of a poem written to a little
girl on her first birthday, July 12, 1943, by a group of internees
in the San Tomas internment camp near Manila.
It begins:
Francis Ortigas, Jr., to whose daughter this poem was written,
must have been a courageous and very fine person. He also encloses the
account of the massacre at De La Salle College, a Roman Catholic school
conducted by brothers of the Christian Schools.
Tales of cruelty of man to his fellow man were more than
numerous during the war and are abundant today, but even amidst
cruelty one comes upon compensating qualities of greatness, of courage
and of honesty. Then one feels glad, for where good examples are set
one knows that in time they will be understood and followed.
Professor Nelson Brown of Syracuse University, who was my
husband's constant adviser on tree planting, was a visitor today, and
together we inspected a great many of our plantings. He pointed out to
me the shades of difference among our various evergreen trees and I
managed to understand quite well, but how long I will remember what
they are is another question. I am glad he promised to send Elliott
a written statement of his recommendations.
Dr. Brown hunted a long while before he found some of the little
trees we planted last spring. While this has been a wonderful year for
trees to grow, it also has been a wonderful year for weeds to grow,
and I think it takes a practiced eye to detect the little seedlings
among the other growth.
I have been reading a book called, "Wind Island" by Hedvig
Collin to the youngest among the children here. It is a Junior Literary
Guild book and the illustrations are perfectly delightful. The scene
is laid in Denmark and the characters are a family of Danish children.
One nice thing about these modern children's books is that they have
real interest for the elders who read them aloud as well as for the
children who listen. This is not a new book, but one which came out
some time ago, and I find that my library is valuable just because I
have a collection of such variety that the youngsters have a wide
choice from which to draw.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
