
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —On Sunday I arrived back in New York. After making the whole flight across the country we arrived fifteen minutes ahead of time. Both going and coming on this trip I have had great luck with the weather.
I went to Gump's in San Francisco on Saturday morning and I found it as delightful a store as usual. They have the greatest variety of imported attractions from all over the world. I also tried to visit my old friend in Chinatown, Mr. Suey Choong, but Grant Avenue is a long street and I was late. So I finally gave up and sent him a message of regret that I could not see him on this trip.
The Bonds for Israel dinner was another birthday celebration for me. They claimed that the difference in time did not make it impossible to think I was still celebrating my seventieth birthday! Much as I appreciated their kindness I begin to think I have celebrated this birthday enough. I will be adding to my years shorting because aAt each celebration, someone comes up to me and says that he is 75 or 80—and finally one lady was introduced to me who is 95. I am beginning to think that 70 is not worth any consideration whatsoever!
I dined on Friday night in San Francisco with my old friends, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Macauley. They have one of those interesting San Francisco houses that perches on the side of a hill and has a view for miles out over the Bay. They are a little difficult to reach but when you get there it is charming inside, and nothing could be more intriguing than the sight of the moon coming up over the city lights. I was delighted to meet a gentleman there who had lived seven years in India and who loved that part of the world.
I also met the young lawyer who is regional representative for the NAACP on the coast, and found him delightful. He has a charming wife and they seem to be very happy and to be doing very good work in a difficult situation, since it is only recently that the Negro population has come to the West Coast. In the San Francisco Bay area it has mushroomed overnight and they are having many of the difficulties that are beginning to disappear in the North and East.
I had the pleasure on Sunday afternoon of having Dr. and Mrs. Arnold Toynbee for tea who were kindly brought by Mr. and Mrs. Walck. I was particularly happy to have the opportunity to talk with Dr. Toynbee and he was just as charming as I had been led to believe he would be.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
