
                  
                     PHOENIX, Monday
                  —In Seattle last week there was a luncheon of representatives of practically all the organizations already cooperating with the Northwest Chapter for the United Nations. At the end of the meeting we discovered that there were several representatives of labor from the state of Oregon and one representative had come all the way from Lewiston, Idaho, sent by his organization. He was there ready and willing to find out how labor could cooperate with our organization and I really think that we owe a vote of thanks to Mr. Meany and Mr. RuetherReuther and the head of the brotherhoods for the way they have alerted their groups so that they have felt an obligation to come to these organization meetings.
After the luncheon was over there was a meeting held in one of the university auditoriums and after short speeches the general question period broke up into workshop groups on special problems of organization.
Later there was a reception in the Olympic Hotel followed by a large fund-raising dinner. This was not a part of the conference that had been going on all day but a separate activity and I think that the local organization was glad to have such a good representation at the dinner.
We left the hotel late in the week, and fortunately for us the weather was fine, and we actually saw Mount Rainier! There were a few clouds around the top but the great majestic snow mass was visible, which is a rather rare treat for the visitor. Flying down we were notified that we could see Mount Shasta and in fact the whole way the scenery was well worth watching as it was clear enough to see the mountains.
Actually landing in San Francisco there seems to be always a little fog somewhere about but we got down almost on time and reached the hotel ahead of time. We stayed at the old St. Francis right in the heart of San Francisco. It is more convenient, of course, because so many of our meetings are close by. I felt a little sad that I did not have time for my usual visit to Chinatown and a look into my favorite shop where I would like to have said how do you do to the kind gentleman who always greets me so politely, but on this trip I did not have any time outside of that devoted to association business.
I would rather like to have gone to Gump's also but that too was out of the question. Nevertheless, I led my companions and our kind host Mr. Mathews, who is chairman for northern California, into one change of plan, and I hope it proved a pleasure to others besides myself.
In the meantime my first engagement immediately upon arrival was with the press at the Press Club and I was glad to see my old friend Fred Storm as I entered the room. He looks younger than ever, but he had to leave quickly because most of the people present had deadlines they had to meet. After the press conference there was a luncheon with the heads of chapters and members of chapters in the region at which Mr. Eichelberger and I both spoke about the organization which we hope to achieve.
I was particularly happy to see Miss Flora Rose who was head of the College of Home Economics at Cornell for many years and now lives in Berkeley, also Mrs. Edward McCauley whom I see much too rarely but I am always glad to get even a glimpse of her. After the question period at this luncheon meeting we had a meeting with the executive committee and then I had a brief period at the hotel before I went off to a television show.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
