
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday
                  —There is a very interesting exhibit in the public lobby of the United Nations building at Lake Success.
Posters are featured that present the entire Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other displays show the means used to publicize this document. These reveal how newspapers, magazines, special feature articles, radio, television, etc., have been used. There also are recordings on sale that can be had for schools and libraries. There are film strips and a new movie.
Every medium possible seems to have been used to spread the knowledge of the Declaration by the United Nations and certainly it has done its part extremely well. I hope that within every individual country not only the materials available through the U.N. but the materials produced by the country itself will be widely distributed.
The same kind of work must, of course, be done on the Covenant as it is developed and after it is finally accepted by the General Assembly. All of us hope that this will be done by next autumn. Then we will know that in every country there must be an understanding on the part of the people to achieve the ratification of the first Covenant and the decision on the future work of the Human Rights Commission.
Much to the surprise of the drafting group that met on Tuesday morning an agreed text was accomplished and presented to the Commission yesterday afternoon on Article 8. Articles 5, 8 and 9 are still awaiting the final decisions to be taken.
We did succeed yesterday afternoon in voting one paragraph of Article 9, but the delegate from Lebanon had brought in an entirely new text for paragraphs one and two of this article, so it was put over for further study. I have a hope that today we may finish Article 9 and perhaps Article 8.
These articles are, however, the difficult ones in the Covenant. Some that we come to later should move more rapidly. Both the delegate from China and the delegate from India pointed out yesterday that in bringing new wording to our texts we were often not improving them, and I think that warning is going to be even truer as we proceed.
Last evening Miss Thompson and I had the pleasure of dining and going to a play with Henry Morgenthau Jr. and his family. At my request we went to see "Now I Lay Me Down To Sleep," with Fredric March and Florence Eldridge. I enjoyed the evening very much.
The play was fantastic and amusing in spots and serious in others. Leonora Graves was a curious character, typically English, bedevilledbedeviled by standards that never seem to leave anyone whose roots are in that little island, really loving and yet never able quite to give herself. Ultimately she does give the general's baby all that she has in her heart but never can really give herself to the fabulous, amusing and lovable old rascal.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
