
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —On last Sunday afternoon I had the pleasure of a talk with Mr. Bernard Baruch and I was happy to see him feeling well again and as interested as any young man in everything that goes on in the world.
Monday morning I met with some correspondents who have come from overseas to study the United Nations and visit New York and Washington. They were an extremely interesting group and I enjoyed the opportunity to meet them.
I wonder how many of my readers have seen the message adopted by the leaders of the Ethical Society in America concerning the U.N. It seems to me a very fine document. Part of it I want to give you here, as I think it is the kind of thinking that many of us could not put into words. Nevertheless they are the thoughts we hold in the back of our minds and it is valuable to find it put into words for us. The message reads, in part:
"Men everywhere long for the day when war will be obsolete, when peace will be assured to themselves and their children. In ever-widening circles, men are learning the futility of war and the dread disaster for all mankind of a possible war with nuclear weapons.
"Out of the suffering, death, and destruction of two World Wars they have learned that nation states acting alone are no longer adequate to defend the lands and liberties and lives of their people.
"National military establishments and armaments tend to war rather than peace. Military and economic policies based upon the national interest, without relation to the increasing interdependence of nations and the growth of the world community, injure others and endanger the nation itself.
"In the ten years of its existence, the U.N. has contributed substantially and constructively to the reality and hope of world peace.
"It has met the threats of aggression with the methods of conference and negotiation, and the act of aggression with effective collective resistance.
"It has brought the nations together in a world forum for the open discussion of grievances and conflicts of interest and idea.
"It has helped to inform and educate and express the public opinion and consicienceconscience of the world.
"It has helped bring into being new nations with a minimum of violence and bloodshed.
"It has provided agencies to prepare non-self-governing people for the responsibilities of independence and full status in the family of nations.
"It has focussedfocused world attention upon colonialism, has impressed colonial powers with the importance and necessity of the need for emancipation of all peoples from the yoke of imperialism.
"It has brought about cooperation between nations in order to raise the standards of health, production, and living standards in underdeveloped areas.
"Through its specialized agencies it has not only lessened misery and poverty and disease and illiteracy in the world, but it has also increased the hope of a true equality and brotherhood among men."
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
