
                  
                     MEEKER, Colorado, Friday
                  —I was amused to read two little items of news in the paper the other day. In England the Queen announced that she would not wear the new short hemline, and I read that in a press conference here our Secretary of State, after being given a demonstration of how gentlemen looked in shorts, decided against them for American males, saying that American men might not have as good knees for shorts as the British, but adding immediately that he was all for the ladies' short hemline. These little asides enliven the international scene, I think.
I have been thinking a great deal of late about a speech made some time ago by Senator James E. Murray of Montana when a Senate Joint Resolution was introduced on a non-partisannonpartisan basis to "provide for an international food reserve".." Members of both parties joined in backing this resolution and Senator Murray gave very good reasons why it should be backed by every farmer in America and by every processor and distributor of farm commodities because, he explained, "it would encourage abundant production of food and fibres and provide a constructive method of preventing market surpluses".."
Then he remembered to consider the consumer, the general public, you and I, who are usually forgotten in the press of special interest groups, and he said it would protect against "shortages and the consumer price increases which accompany shortages".." Finally he said this resolution would be of interest to the other nations of the world which produce or import agricultural commodities. He pointed out that food and clothing are two of the most vital weapons in mankind's struggle for a happier and more peaceful world and for all these reasons he felt we should create at once an international food reserve.
It was an unusual thing to have a resolution of this kind come from the Senate and not through negotiation on the part of the executive branch of the Government first with other nations but, as the Senator pointed out, sometimes these negotiations on the part of governments come to nothing because they are not inspired or participated in by the Congress which in the long run does have to put the machinery in operation to bring anything of this kind about.
The resolution is simple. The first section indicates why an international food reserve is needed. The second section explains the purposes that will be served by an international food reserve, and the third section authorizes and directs our mission members in the UNU.N. to enter promptly into international negotiations for the purpose of preparing a specific plan. The fourth simply asks that this plan and the information pertaining thereto come to the Congress for approval. No funds are provided but the mere fact that the information supporting this resolution was before the Congress must have started much thinking, not only in our own country, but in the world and I hope that it will go on until something really constructive comes of it.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
