
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —Last Friday I left at noon by plane for Charleston, W.Va., but prior to that I had two interviews, the first with a Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Nauraine who are in the United States trying to raise money for a children's home in Puerto Rico.
The Nauraines showed me pictures of the home and of the children and they told me that the problem in Puerto Rico for orphaned children and children whose parents could not afford to feed them was a serious one. They felt that this home should be a pattern for others situated in different parts of the Island. They pointed out that proper care for these children has a direct bearing on some American problems since these homeless children are most likely to look for an opportunity to come to the United States. If they could have proper food, proper training and schooling, they would be far better citizens when they do succeed in getting here. I don't know what support and help the Nauraines will find here, but there may well be something in their idea of the importance it has for our country.
My second appointment was with a young, blind violinist, Mr. Reuben Varga, who came here from Israel and is becoming an American citizen. I heard him play several years ago and he has some very fine notices as a result of a South American tour. He feels that he needs more recognition and an opportunity to play before many more groups of people in this country. But this is one field with which I have very little connection and I don't know that I can do a great deal, though I enjoyed his playing when I heard him.
I was met in Charleston by both the mayor and the governor of the state. This seems proof that the United Nations, and particularly the AAUN, is non-partisannonpartisan, for the mayor is a Republican and the governor a Democrat!
I had the pleasure of meeting Governor and Mrs. Marland's three children and I dressed in their hospitable mansion before going to a press conference. This was followed by a TV recording and then a dinner of the county group that are working for the AAUN. One mayor of another city came from nearly 200 miles away.
After dinner we all went to the auditorium where the mayor and the governor agreed that some 2,000 people were gathered.
I took the night train and was back in New York on Saturday.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
