
                  
                     NEW YORK.—It appears that Syria and Egypt have joined to form a federation in which Egypt will be the moving force, since Egypt has a population of 24 million and Syria's is only four million.
To the outsider, this joining of forces across Israel seems both difficult to deal with and a menace to Israel's safety. It seems to indicate much difficulty and constant recriminations between Israel and the other two countries.
Another story from that area of the world that interested me very much told of the retirement of the head of the Israel Army, General Moshe Dayan.
General Dayan disclaims any knowledge of the rumor that Prime Minister Ben Gurion is grooming him for a Cabinet post, and characteristic of Israel is the report he will take a leave of absence to study humanities at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
I wonder how many chiefs of staff of the U.S. Army would have indulged in a similar shift of interest?
Everyone must have read with considerable shock the news of Robert R. Young's suicide in Palm Beach, Fla. It seemed incredible that a man of this kind who had fought his way through so many battles should want at 60 to give up the battle of living.
Railroads are having a hard time, but this would seem to be only an added challenge to a businessman at the peak of his career to try to find the solutions for the problems before him. Railroads are still a necessity and cannot disappear!
Everyone will extend deep sympathy to President Eisenhower on the death of his oldest brother. Apparently a close tie exists among all these brothers and we must all grieve to see this added burden put on the President's shoulders.
I am told that bill H.R. 358, passed unanimously by the House during the last session of Congress and dealing with the Spanish War veterans, is now awaiting action by the Finance Committee.
There are not many Spanish War veterans or their widows, and all of them are old. This bill would grant some increase in protection for these widows, and it would seem that it would not be too much for the country to assume a little more responsibility to make life more bearable for these elderly women whose husbands were all volunteers in the Spanish War.
We know the cost of past wars is a great burden on our taxpayers, but this will not add much to this burden and I think our hearts will be lighter if we know these widows are getting adequate care.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
