
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Friday
                  —Last Tuesday evening Postmaster General Frank Walker, who had consented to speak at the first Memorial Day services at my husband's grave, held under the auspices of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Home Club, came to Hyde Park with Mrs. Walker to spend the night with me. Major Henry S. Hooker also came up for the night, and on Wednesday morning we all went over to the garden where a little less than a month and a half ago we had together attended my husband's funeral.
The people were gathered all around the square grass plot, and several very beautiful wreaths had been sent. The grave itself was covered with our own flowers from the place, as my husband would have wished. The ceremonies were broadcast, and therefore many of you know that it was a sunny, beautiful day and that the service was simple and in keeping with what my husband liked on Memorial Day.
The Postmaster General made a most moving speech, a speech which came from his heart. I am sure that he wondered beforehand whether he would be able to make it without breaking down, but I think the past few years have put many people through experiences which have taught them self-control. Mr. Walker is one of those steady persons whom people have depended upon and will depend upon because they have depth of feeling and of sympathy, and also great strength.
After some of the people had left, and the first ceremonies were completed, a group of officers and cadets from West Point arrived to hold a simple ceremony and lay President Truman's wreath on the grave. So, for the second time, the simple prayers were said and taps were sounded in the quiet garden. I was deeply appreciative of the President's thought and of the kindly feeling of so many others which prompted the sending of the beautiful flowers and the attendance of so many people at this Memorial Day service.
Realizing the difficulties of transportation these days, I know how much it meant in sacrifice for many of those who came. Maeterlinck, in "The Bluebird," reminded us that the thought of those on earth is what wakens the spirit of those who have gone on. Those of us who believe that the things my husband stood for must go on are glad to feel that his spirit is awakened by the thoughts of such a multitude of people and that therefore his courage and strength march on with us.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
