
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Tuesday
                  —Last night I went down to the Hudson
River State Hospital to speak to a group of conscientious objectors
who, like so many others, are working in the state hospitals for
the insane during the summer. This group belongs to the Mennonite
church.
The superintendent of the hospital told me that they had undoubtedly
raised the standards for the care of the patients, and
that they had been of tremendous help in disclosing certain practices
which existed there and about which he never before could get
any real evidence. He said if they could stay longer they would probably
improve the standards even more.
Though it is beginning to be a little less difficult to find
people for the work which has to be done, it is true we have never
given enough thought to finding the right type of people for positions
in these institutions. The salaries are very low and it is
hard to compete with outside opportunities. Probably every employee
in an institution for the insane should have some special training,
either after he is employed or before; but we often employ people
with no training and no background, simply because no one else is
available at the salary offered.
This kind of work for the conscientious objectors is, of course,
much better than many of the occupations which they have been given
to do in the public service camps. Many of them are preparing to
travel for their churches after the war and undertake relief work
in different parts of the world, and what training they get in
hospitals here will be of value in the future.
Have you heard about the Toledo, Ohio plan for rebuilding their
city? During the past two and a half years, they have spent $250,000
on an exact scale model for "Toledo Tomorrow." The plan is to have
an airport virtually in the heart of the city, with underground train
approaches and "congestion proof" highways; a single terminal for
all bus, plane and train traffic, and a new port and harbors. They
hope to separate their business and residential districts so that
the city will have the park-like appearance of certain parts of Paris
and other cities which have been planned for beautiful effects. Residential
sections would be developed with their own stores, churches
and recreational facilities. They would do away with the old frame
buildings and the congested areas which now exist, and the money
scheduled for post-war purposes would be spent on a real plan, carefully
thought through.
The scale model, which every citizen can look at when he wants
to know what the future city of Toledo is going to resemble, will
help to make all the people understand the plan. This kind of fore-may
prove valuable to other cities in the country whose leaders
realize that they must make some changes if their people are going
to live well in the future.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
