
                  
                     FAYETTEVILLE, Ark., Thursday.—To my regret I never had time in the day I spent in Fayetteville, to meet my double. After arriving we had a little time to do some work and then we went to lunch with about 100 members of the faculty and the student body of the University of Arkansas. All the deans and their wives were present and at the end of the luncheon I spoke for a few minutes. Then there was a little time to rest and at four o'clock I went to a meeting of students and townspeople.
The hall at the Student Union was full and this time the president of the women's student body started by asking me questions and then there were questions from the floor. That lasted for over an hour, after which I dressed for the evening and at six o'clock had dinner with the girls of the freshman class, who live in the dormitory where we stayed. They have a few councilorscounselors from among the seniors living with them and some members of the faculty. They seem to enjoy their quarters very much and to be a very happy group of girls.
The boy who heads student government and presided at the luncheon told me there were almost twice as many boys as girls on the campus and that it was a great drawback from the boy'sboys' point of view. The girls, I imagine, feel differently.
The evening meeting was at eight o'clock in the Student Union Building and even though I had been warned that we were competing with a basketball game, I was told that we had a record attendance. It certainly looked to me very full in the corridors and even on the stairs as we went in, but I understand a complete loud speakerloudspeaker system made it possible for people to hear anywhere in the building.
A half hour of questions followed the talk and then I went over for a little while to President and Mrs. Caldwell's house. Mr. and Mrs. Caldwell are charming hosts and were more than kind to me during my whole visit. I was only sorry not to see their three children, but as they are under five they were sound asleep.
President Caldwell's mother had driven all the way from Yazoo City, Mississippi, to be there for the meeting and I was very happy to have an opportunity of meeting this very lovely Southern lady, 82 years old, and still strongly interested in every civic matter affecting her own city and with broad interests in the world's affairs, as well.
I was glad to hear from the lady who is on the board of trustees of the university and who came from Little Rock, that Mrs. Joe Robinson is well and still remembers me as I remember her.
The weather cleared in the afternoon and Wednesday was a beautiful day, so we enjoyed the drive through the mountains.
I was surprised to hear of a tornado which struck in another part of the state for there was certainly nothing in Fayetteville to make us conscious of any disturbance.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
