
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —It was interesting to read in the paper the other day of the verbal attack by Sen. W.E.W.E. Jenner, Republican of Indiana, on Sen. Ralph E. Flanders, Republican of Vermont. Anyone who read Senator Flanders' statement to the Russian people and had any sense of the importance of international unity must have seen the value of this message, which appealed to all the Soviet-controlled people for disarmament and for peaceful cooperation.
Whether Senator Jenner likes it or not, all men in this world are brothers. We hope that eventually they will be friends, and to tell them truthfully that we must learn to live together in peace, because there is no alternative except destruction of the whole human race, is a very wise thing to do.
Only gentlemen who are so emotional that they shout and wave their arms about in uncontrolled fashion, as Senator Jenner reportedly did, can take the shortsighted view that he takes. It isn't a question of what you like; it is a question of facts and what exists.
The world has grown so small that all men must live as brothers or all men will die as enemies.
On Tuesday night I went to see "Boy Friend," an entertaining musical comedy that satirizes the ''20s. The dresses of the period were very ugly from my point of view. The ladies had no waists, only a line that came around the lower part of their hips, and skirts that came to their knees, which was not too bad if they had pretty legs but terrible for the fat ones.
In the play, of course, all the girls had beautiful legs and one wonders if they are chosen for legs rather than faces, though there were pretty faces, too!
If you want to see a procession of ladies' styles, the next time you are in Washington go to the Smithsonian Institution, where there is on display the inaugural gowns that were worn by each of the Presidents' wives. Thus, the fashion picture is recorded at least for every fourth year. I think you will come away with a feeling that the woman who dresses to suit her particular type, with only a moderate bowing acquaintance with fashion, comes out better than the woman who is a slave to the designer of the moment.
When one is very young, very slim, and very pretty, one can afford to go from one extreme to the other—and even can wear rather ridiculous clothes, at times. But later on, it seems to me, though one must keep a nodding acquaintance with the fashions so as not to be too conspicuous, it is not such a bad idea to find a style that suits and stick to it.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
