
                  
                     SYRACUSESYRACUSE, N.Y..
                  —On Saturday morning last week I went to Cambridge to meet Professor Louis B. Sohn of the Harvard Law School to talk over a report on human rights, which his committee is to write for the Commission on the Organization for Peace. This commission is a subsidiary of the American Association for the United Nations.
I had a delightful lunch with Professor and Mrs. Sohn in their apartment along with Professor Claude, another member of the commission. The apartment house, in which a number of faculty members reside is surrounded by factories of different kinds, but from the balcony off the living room of Professor Sohn's apartment one looks right out over the river, and I was enchanted with the little sailboats as they went scudding by.
After lunch I wantwent back to Boston to the apartment of my sister-in-law, Mrs. John Cutter and there my grandson, Curtis Roosevelt, and his wife met us and guided us out to Nahant to call upon the captain of Curtis' battery.
Capt. and Mrs. Stahlman, together with two young lieutenants, were on hand to greet us. Then some ladies from the Board of Education in Lynn, who are interested in the classes attended by members of this battery, came in and we had a delightful tea and discussion of the progress that could be made in education if a project like theirs could be extended.
I was very glad to have this opportunity to hear how the people engaged in this work actually felt, and it was certainly encouraging to find so much interstinterest among the officers of our Army.
We were so interested and it was so pleasant in the house, which is situated on a point looking out to sea, that I almost forgot that I had another engagement in Cambridge. However, we reached my sister-in-law's apartment in time for us both to change and be ready when the Radcliffe girls and the Harvard boys who form our college council for the U.N came to get us.
We dined in a girls' cooperative house, and they certainly made every effort to give us a good dinner. I never saw plates heaped with more roast beef, and everything they had prepared was delicious.
This was the first meeting this college council has held and I'm sure they were pleased with the attendance even though they were competing with several dances held after the football game.
Mr. and Mrs. John Carter Vincent picked us up at the meeting after the question period ended and took us to their delightful house in Cambridge and then drove us back to Boston.
On Sunday I attended the Boston convention of the Americans for Democratic Action and spoke at lunch, then caught a four o'clock plane back to New York.
I thought the Boston group had a very carefully thought-out program, and they certainly had done a good deal of work on the legislative points they wish to support.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
