
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —I had the great pleasure Tuesday evening of dining with my good friends, Dr. and Mrs. David Levy, and afterwards Mrs. Levy, her niece from California and I went to the Lexington Democratic Club meeting in the home of Mrs. Harold Linder.
The crowd was large, and I was pleased to see so much interest in such a meeting and delighted to find enthusiasm for the candidacy of Adlai Stevenson on the part of a great many people.
Now that Governor Averell Harriman has emerged in the West as a really active candidate, even though he still says he is not really campaigning—only taking a swing around to have a look at the country, I imagine—what he says will have an effect on party policies.
It is only right, therefore, that he be taken seriously and that people listen to what he has to say. He has been courageous and forthright, but he has not given his formula for carrying out the policies he believes in.
I think that is one of the things our candidates should do. It is essential for the people to know just how they expect to accomplish the ends they stand for.
There is work to be done in integration here in New York State, and I have heard no complete explanation of how integration is to be accomplished in the schools here in the near future. One group announced, as a policy, that integration must be completed by 1957, but that means a complete change in housing in a large area of the City of New York and I wonder how this is to be done.
Taking a stand and carrying it out are two different things!
One of the most important organizations in the country is the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, which is holding its annual conference in San Francisco from May 20 to 23.
In the past year the National PTA has made a spectacular gain in membership and now numbers 10,130,252 members. It has 41,000 local units across the nation, including Hawaii. Three thousand delegates will attend the convention, which has as its theme "The Family and the Community: Each Shapes the Other—the PTA Serves Both for Healthy Children in Healthy Communities."
I have always felt that this organization was one of the most important in our country and has accomplished many things which have been valuable to the children of the communities in which it serves. I think it can become, with increased membership, even more important in the future.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
