
                  
                     NEW YORK.—It was not surprising that Communist China followed its announcement of withdrawal of troops from North Korea with the suggestion that the United States do the same in South Korea.
This, of course, is tantamount to asking for the withdrawal of all the United Nations forces from South Korea. Therefore, it is not unreasonable for the U.S. to ask that this withdrawal be coupled with an assurance of free elections in all of Korea under the auspices of the U.N.
Since Communist China already has suggested that elections be held under the supervision of a group of neutral nations, we hope that it will agree to supervision of the elections by the U.N. Certainly any nations chosen by the U.N. for such a task would be neutral, since it would be foolish to include nations that would have an interest in the outcome.
This move certainly will be welcomed as a gesture leading toward a more peaceful situation in Korea. It does not, of course, mean that Communist China will at once apply for membership in the U.N. or that her membership will at once be favorably considered. But it certainly is a move that should be welcomed as bringing about a more peaceful atmosphere for Korea as a whole.
It is evident that the President is really going to put up a fight for his mutual security program covering foreign aid.
I think he should be supported by both Democrats and Republicans, but I would be interested to see the Democrats, while giving their support to the entire sum, look into the value of such military aid as is promised and consider more carefully whether there cannot be more economic and less military aid.
I think our best defense is to raise the standard of living in many countries to which we give aid. We are accused in many parts of the world of needing military orders to keep our economy going, and I think it would be wise if the Administration would ask our industrial leaders to have ready a plan for use in case military orders decrease and we find it wise to meet other needs in the world.
These needs, of course, could be met with development through the U.N. of natural resources in many undeveloped countries so that they, in turn, could buy our goods.
It troubles many of the uncommitted countries of the world that we seem more ready to give military aid than economic aid. The importance, however, of continuing our program on the scale the President has suggested, and adding to it if possible, cannot be overemphasized. I hope this will be understood by both parties.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
