
                  
                     Duluth, Minn., 1947-05-28Wednesday
                  —Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where I spoke Tuesday night, has one of the most interesting plans for a War Memorialwar memorial that I have seen. The county sent more men into the Servicesservices in proportion to its population than any other county in the United States. They are now embarking on a 
                     War
                  Memorialmemorial to these men who fought in the war, planned with the same generosity that the men showed in entering the services. They say in their literature that they hope their idea will spread to other communities and certainly the plans sound so attractive that they should inspire other communities to similar generous giving.

                  Milwaukeans want their Memorialmemorial to serve the living so it is to have three auditoriums where theatre, and music and forums can all be enjoyed in proper surroundings. There will be an art gallery to house not only paintings but industrial designs and inventions which effectaffect business life. In an arcade they will commemorate with individual plaques the men who died in service and they will also have a roster of honor displayed, giving the names of all of those who went into the Servicesservices. The original investment they think will be $5,000,000, which is the largest sum which the city of Milwaukee has ever raised for one objective, but I think in the future, the city will find this investment bringing in many returns of value to the citizens not only of the city and county, but of the state as a whole.
One realizes, of course, that every effort of this kind is carried on within the framework of the ordinary demands which at this time in many cases, are extraordinary and which are made on many citizens of all communities, for civic and charitable purposes. Incomes in many cases are still high, however, and since the Congress is cutting income taxes as of July first, greater demands on voluntary giving can justifiably be made.
I am interested to find many people commenting on the high cost of living and some people sound rather down-hearteddownhearted about it. I was delighted to find one industrial leader in Milwaukee, however, who is engaged in an expansion program which he said he hoped might take up some of the unemployment which was appearing in certain other industries.
We had to sit up last night to take a late train. Finally as we were standing in the station at one o'clock in the morning, a group of high school youngsters who had been on a two daytwo-day visit to Milwaukee with their teacher came up to ask for autographs and then a couple of men, working on the railroad came and talked to me and finally some of the men in the station came over. One man shook hands, went off and then came back again and said almost as though he were ashamed of showing any emotion: "The boss did a fine job".."My husband would have liked his tribute, I am sure.
