
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —I had a visit the other day from Mrs. Cardwell Dawson, founder and president of the National Negro Opera Company Foundation, Inc., of Washington, D. C.D.C. Mrs. Dawson tells me they will have a gala banquet and ball here on the evening of May 28 at the Hotel New Yorker.
The ball is sponsored by prominent New York business men and will honor over 50 stars and celebrities who have pioneered in making significant contributions in America in the field of drama, music and the allied arts. They will include business and professional women who have made outstanding contributions in their particular line of work, but who have also had time to help people who have worked in the arts. After dinner and the entertainment there will be the presentation of awards, and well-known entertainers will appear during the evening in floor shows.
The National Negro Opera Company was founded in 1942 and its purpose is to establish a sustaining fund which will assist in underwriting operatic productions. One of the company's leading stars, Robert McFerrin, is now listed on the regular roster of the Metropolitan Opera Company. This event should be an unusual one not only for the Negro community, but for all music-loving people.
When I was in Canada, I learned about an especially interesting achievement of their U. N.U.N. Association. The women in the Farm Institutes are taking more interest, I think, than our farm groups usually do in the U. N.U.N. I was given a Farm Magazine article in which Mrs. Laura Chisholm wrote of a project which had been undertaken through the gift coupon plan of UNESCO. This was the adoption of an Indian village. The coupon books were sold in the women's institutes and the things needed are being bought for particular villages in India.
Another project is being carried out by the Federated Women's Institutes of Ontario, which have agreed to raise $5,000 for equipment for four villages. I thought perhaps we in the United States might use this idea to interest some of our farm groups, for it is a very practical way of helping men and women in other parts of the world in rural areas.
The Canadian U. N.U.N. Association covers all the activities for the U. N.U.N. They deal with the plans for celebrating U. N.U.N. Day, and they are the one association which disseminates information on the U. N.U.N.
(DISTRIBUTED BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
