
                  
                     WASHINGTON, D.C., Wednesday
                  —As a result of the attention drawn to deafness by Hard of Hearing Week, I have discovered a new miniature hearing aid which I want to see demonstrated. It would be wonderful if this really removes some of the complications of the other aid which I have occasionally worn.
Speaking of deafness where children are concerned, I recently heard rather a charming story.
A father lost the hearing in his right ear because of a skull fracture. He has two children—a boy and a girl. Naturally he has always watched them very carefully. His method of testing their alertness and hearing is quite charming, I think. They play a game: He whispers "I love you." Each one tries to hear him first. The winner cries out: "I heard you Dada." After a seigesiege of the mumps he discovered his little girl had lost hearing in her left ear.
This simple home test is one which will save many children from struggling against undetected deafness. I think it is so good that we can face handicaps in these days, frankly discuss them, and get all the help that modern science makes available for both children and older people.
Incidentally, many people may be confused by the controversy that continues over various programs for better health in this nation. The Democratic National Committee is, of course, backing the plan for the improvement of the nation's health. A plan advocated by the President, backed by Federal Security Administrator, Oscar Ewing, and Democratic leaders in the House and Senate. The main opposition to the plan has been that it could be termed "socialized medicine".."
I know very little about socialized medicine but, I suppose the experiment being carried out in England, would be a pattern to which our American Medical Association would be opposed, at least for the most part.
I think all of us, however, should study any plan that is offered us to better the nation's health.
A little booklet has been issued by the Democratic National Committee on the national health program advocated and proposed by the President. This should be read carefully by every citizen, regardless of party. On the outside of the green pamphlet are the words: "Better Medical Care That You Can Afford". Surely most of our people are looking for just that. We should of course, read what there is to be said against any plan, and undoubtedly there will be plenty to read. But fortunately our nation is accustomed to reading both sides of a question; capable of weighing the "pros" and "cons",," and then making their own decisions.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
