
                  
                     LOUISVILLE, KentuckyKy.
                     , Thursday.—Early this month the New York Association for Crippled Children started its annual activities through its Easter Seal campaign. I imagine many other states have groups that are looking after their crippled children and in one way or another they raise money for the same purposes that we do in New York State.
Children who suffer from some handicap must be rehabilitated through special education and training. Also, there must be programs of guidance and placement when it comes time for them to find work and earn their own living. From the time they are young, recreation must be organized for them, as it is especially important for this group, and it requires more careful planning than for any other group. I was interested to find that among the types of recreation arranged for was a period of camping.
The money raised through the sale of Easter Seals pays for all these activities during the year and everyone is urged to take an interest in the campaigns being conducted throughout the country. I think it would be heartless for us to ignore this worthy cause.
I neglected to mention in this column the American Heart Campaign for 1950, which was inaugurated and pushed during the month of February but which goes on all year. This is one of the most important fund-raising campaigns, particularly because of the children's concern. The national goal this year is six million dollars of which 70 percent goes to the local affiliated heart associations and 30 percent to the national association.
Fifty percent of the funds received by the national office of the association will be allocated to research. There is a tremendous amount still to be done through scientific research to discover the causes, prevention and cure of heart and circulatory diseases. There still is practically no knowledge of the cause of rheumatic fever, high blood pressure or hardening of the arteries.
The American Heart Association is at work throughout the nation and deserves all the support that the public can give.
I have long felt that for us all the important thing is to give small sums to all the great causes which affect large numbers of people. It is in enlisting the interest and the donations of many people that the really big pieces of work are accomplished.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
