
                  
                     NEW YORK.—Mediation of the French-Tunisian issue by the United States and Britain develops into a difficult situation, because what actually is involved is the whole question of colonialism. And France will not find it easy to make successful political arrangements with Tunisia if she does not also find solutions to her difficulty with Algeria.
The settlement with Algeria, in turn, hinges on an economic agreement concerning the use of oil found in the Sahara Desert.
A visitor from France told me the other day that the trouble in Algeria actually is coming from a small minority and that a majority would like to come to an agreement which would keep Algeria closely tied to France and give that North African state only some measure of self-government.
This version sounds unlikely to me, for if this were so, there would not have been so much trouble with the rebels over so long a time. It is essential to bring about a peaceful solution to the problem and one hopes that conciliation measures will at least bring some light into this difficult situation.
Ever since the New York City Board of Education decided to suspend pupils who create serious discipline problems, I have wondered what would happen to the suspended youngsters. I felt it would mean a rise in juvenile delinquency and petty crime.
But now the Board of Education is planning to open four new schools for suspended pupils. A formal resolution authorizing the establishment of these temporary schools will be submitted by Superintendent of Schools William Jansen to the board on February 27.
I cannot see that this is a very satisfactory solution, since these temporary schools cannot be as well equipped with materials and teachers as the others. But it is certainly better than letting these children roam the streets with nothing to do. The whole business was a poor solution for a difficulty that required some mature handling.
My return to New York early this week found the city experiencing a real wintry day. And, like many other tenants, I discovered how cold my apartment can be. The wind whistled in through the cracks on our entrance floor, but I suppose my plight was no worse than that of many other people in the unusual weather.
A friend of mine was caught in the country in a cabin with only an open fire with which to keep warm. That must have been quite an experience!
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
