
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Thursday
                  —The Christmas Season is with us again and two of my friends have sent myme prayers which I would like to pass on to my readers. One was marked a "Cordelia Murphy original" and is done in most beautiful script. It is headed, "Prayer for a Home".."
Another friend sent me a much more personal prayer and one, perhaps, we would like to keep where we can glance at it each morning.
"Please, God, our Father, let us thank you for all that is good, true, and beautiful in this Thy universe. Please, God, guide and bless the United States and the United Nations, bless all efforts to achieve peace with justice and freedom and guide those who work for these ends. Forgive us our faults, and if a personal prayer is permissablepermissible, grant guidance and protection to all those whom we love.
"May we grow in faith and understanding, and give us work, wherever we may be, which may benefit our community and the world so that we may prove the value of democracy and grow more worthy of the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man. Above all, dear God, relieve us of our fears. Give us faith in ourselves and faith in one another, so that we may build a world in which the Four Freedoms are possible."
I hope you will like these prayers as I have and that you will consider them as my Christmas message to all of you who read my column. This is a blessed season and there is nothing in literature more beautiful than the story in the Scriptures of the coming of Christ to earth. It is symbolic, perhaps, that He came as a baby needing love and protection, for all of us need love and protection.
At this season of the year, hearts are warm and overflowing with wishes for a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year which we extend to all we meet, and I hope the wishes can be translated into acts that will bring to those whom we can reach some greater happiness and comfort throughout the year.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, by UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
