
                  
                     TEHERANTEHRAN, Iran.—I discovered not long ago that in New York City we do not have an educational TV channel. There is a very good job being done but on a part-time basis, and I find that on the whole there is remarkably little interest in getting a channel to be devoted exclusively to education merely because part of the need is now being met.
I still think it would be well if more could be done, because I feel that during school hours much could be accomplished by giving very able teachers an opportunity to give courses on TV. These could be given in the various schools simultaneously and the teachers in the classrooms could then do a far better job with their pupils than they could accomplish alone.
I am beginning to feel that many of our problems have to be attacked at the school level but on a much broader scale than we have faced before.
It seems to me that in New York City the All-Day Neighborhood Schools need to be the pattern for all our elementary schools and the best of our "600" schools should be the pattern for our high schools. This would mean that the increase in recreation and the use of the school playgrounds would automatically become a part of the school program.
We do not need to consider education as coming to an end in the classroom. School facilities should be available morning, afternoon and evening, and in the evening much could be done to interest the parents to join in activities with their children.
This would mean, of course, greater expenditure of tax money even though we are in an era of economy. I am as anxious as anyone to fight inflation, but I want to save on the things that seem unimportant.
There are many things on which we spend large sums of money, on a nationwide basis, and upon which I think we could cut down in order to pay more for education. An increase in appropriations for education would, I think, pay off in the long run. It follows that our school systems would turn out better and healthier citizens, both physically and mentally, and this could change the whole pattern of taxation. With more money going into our educational institutions we would almost surely find that less and less money would be needed for prisons and mental hospitals.
(Copyright, 1959, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
