
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —I have had three days in the country, and have driven up the lovely Hudson Valley and back again, drinking in the beauty of the changing colors. I could have sung a paean of joy every morning as I walked my little dog, Fala, through the woods. The wind blew the gay yellow and red leaves down from the trees with a sighing, rustling sound; but it is still gay, not like late November. Nature is very much alive and is not putting its creatures to sleep as yet for the winter months. Even the birds fly southward as though they liked the snappy air. To come in the house to an open fire and cup of tea, and the visit of some friends, is a very satisfying thing.
I must again through this column thank the many kind people who have sent me good wishes on my birthday. To be remembered is very pleasant and I know that this year many people wanted to be especially kind and thoughtful, and I deeply appreciate it. I don't suppose any of us likes the disabilities which come with growing old, and, at 61, I have my share. I keep losing my glasses and then finding them in quite obvious places! I occasionally use a hearing aid for special purposes: I know that it makes a great difference in my own enjoyment, and also must make it easier for other people who are with me.
All of life must slow up to some extent as the years go by. But, as far as I am concerned, the slowing up on the things which do not require physical prowess has not as yet been very noticeable. When I warn my family and friends that shortly I am going to sit by the fire with a nice little lace cap on my head and a shawl about my shoulders, and knit baby things for the newest generation, they look at me with some incredulity. The day will come, however, and when it does I think it will be rather pleasant.
Perhaps because I have grown older, I think more often of the difficulties which face the children and the old people in countries across the seas. I wish all of us would urge our government to give its utmost help and keep our pledges scrupulously to UNRRA, for that organization is the manifestation that the government of our country really wants to help the suffering people throughout the world.
I hope that all of us will subscribe what we can to the National War Fund and to the various special appeals from the countries which have stood so valiantly during the war, side by side with us, but which are now in desperate need. The children and the old people will suffer the most, and I should like to think that the United States will be remembered in the future not only as the nation which fought and helped to win a war, but which gave generously to help people back on their feet when that war was over.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
