
                  EN ROUTE TO MOROCCO.
                  —While on the subject of violence, as my column was Saturday, something came to my desk the other day which troubled me greatly. It concerns the way our domestic farm animals, which eventually find their way to our tables, are slaughtered.
Other countries have established humane slaughter laws. Such a law requires changes in equipment and methods of slaughtering to be economically sound as well as humane, but it must be compulsory.
According to the information that reached me, about 90 million hogs, 10 million calves and 90 million lambs were slaughtered last year in ways which were described but seem too cruel and gruesome to mention here.
It is suggested that there are more humane ways to kill livestock for meat and that you and I, as individuals, can do something about getting them put into use by writing our Congressmen, the President and the Secretary of Agriculture.
This is something in which housewives can take an active part by writing to the Humane Society of the United States, 733 15th Street, N.W., Washington 5, D.C., for "Facts About Meat," a pamphlet that details the facts I have used in brief.
I recently was fortunate enough to see the play, "The Potting Shed," by Graham Greene. It is one of those dramas that you turn over and over in your mind before grasping its full significance.
The acting by Lady Sybil Thorndike, Robert Flemyng and Leueen MacGrath, as well as by Lewis Casson, was excellent, with a good supporting cast. I so enjoyed every minute of it that I found many things to think about and store away in my mind for careful analysis.
I will remember for some time the lines, "Don't you have to teach a child to love as you teach a child to walk, by loving him?" True, perhaps?
There is a book that I think you will find interesting reading called "Death of a Man," by Lael Tucker Wurtenbaker.
You may not agree with the philosophy in this book, but you cannot help understandunderstanding and admiring the strength of the two people involved.
I have also been sent a book on "Learning to Live as a Widow." Since I have been doing this for some time, I doubt if it has as much immediate importance to me as it undoubtedly will have for some women.
I am very much interested, too, in Muriel Rukeyser's "One Life," which is the life of Wendell Willkie. It is different from the usual biography and probably tells more about Wendell Willkie as a man than many biographies do about their subjects.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
