
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday
                  —On Tuesday I left for Washington on the 8:45 A.M.a.m. plane from New York and that was the beginning of a very busy day. Washington was on Standard Time, so I did have a few mintuesminutes to get some breakfast at the Washington airport before going to see my friend, Mrs. Adolph Miller, who has been very ill.
Then I went out to Howard University for a board meeting.
I enjoy hearing the reports made by Dr. Mordecai W. Johnson, president of the university, at these board meetings. They are not just cut-and-dried reports. Sometimes one hears statements of his personal beliefs and his philosophy of life, and also the subjects he presents for consideration often draw out some of the people around the table. Of the many boards I am on, I think this is the one I really enjoy the most because of the opportunity it affords to hear the point of view, often expressed with deep feeling, of the men and woman serving on this board.
From the university I went to lunch with Mrs. James Helm and to another meeting of an organization that is really just getting under way. This organization has drawn together a group of representatives who, through their contacts, touch a great many other organizations. The aim is, by working through these individuals, to be able to analyze the issues before the country as they come up and present them in a nonpartisan, readable and understandable form to as wide an audience as possible.
As this group becomes better organized, I will tell you more about it.
I was a little late in keeping my date in Baltimore, because of the difference in Washington time, which made us lose an hour.
My hosts, the Baltimore group of the American Association for the United Nations, understood this, however, and we all enjoyed the reception and dinner in the Hotel Belvedere before going over to the Ford Theatre, where I spoke on the U.N. This was a postponed engagement, which I had not been able to keep earlier in the year, but in spite of that there was a fairly good audience.
I made my train very easily at 10:15, but to my disgust and that of a number of other people, we sat for nearly three-quarters of an hour in the Philadelphia station. This caused us to get into New York very late.
This was a week of day-long jaunts. On Thursday I went to Hartford for a luncheon meeting and down to Long Island for an evening meeting. And Friday afternoon I take a trip to Providence for an evening meeting, and then come back to New York.
Last Monday was my only free evening this week and I took full advantage of it by going to see "Wonderful Town." I am not surprised it has been such a success. It moves quickly and is original and refreshing both in music and dialogue. Rosalind Russell is a joy. In fact, I like the whole cast, and it was a very pleasant evening for all of us.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
