
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —It seemed to me that, despite the cleavage among Republican members, the Senate had to speak out on the behavior of Senator McCarthy or lose some of its dignity. To others it probably seemed that an effort was being made to keep that gentleman from doing what he deemed his patriotic duty.
For my part, I was glad to see that only about half the people that it was thought would attend last Monday's rally for the Senator at Madison Square Garden actually attended it. The speakers were predominantly retired military men and anyone who tried to ask a question was rapidly removed from the hall. For the sponsors to be unable to get more than 13,000 people to attend in the city of New York seemed to me a very encouraging sign. As a people we are returning to sanity, evidently, and do not like demagogues any more than we ever have.
On a matter of much greater importance than Senator McCarthy—what atomic bombs can do to civilization—there is a split in both political parties in Congress. President Eisenhower and Sir Winston Churchill seem to be profoundly impressed with this question. Both of them are trying to find ways to live in peace with those who do not think as we do.
Admittedly, this is difficult and there is a cleavage in the opinion of military leaders as well as other people within our nation, and I am sure there must be some cleavage on this in other parts of the world. But I think the mere fact that these cleavages of opinion are showing in both our political parties is a good thing because the President is the President of all the people on questions that are not purely party questions. So I hope President Eisenhower will continue to be a moderate in his attitude and try to find ways for co-operationcooperation in the world.
Last Wednesday I went to Boston, lunched with Mrs. Nathan Pusey and spoke about the United Nations before an organization called the Harvard Dames. Later I went to Brandeis University and dined with a group of students who live in Roosevelt House, which is a co-operativecooperative. The girls do their own work and therefore can live more cheaply.
In the evening I gave a second lecture on the U.N. As the days come for these little jaunts and the weather grows more uncertain I am always a trifle nervous, but I know that I can always come back on the midnight train.
I was regretful one morning this week that I was not able to make a visit to the sale for the blind here, but I finally got to their headquarters on Thursday afternoon. As usual, I found that they have a wealth of fascinating things. It always surprises me that blind people are able to make them.
