
                  
                     FORT WORTH, Tex.FORT WORTH, Texas
                  —After the mass meeting in the University of Utah auditorium in Salt Lake City Friday night, I took off on a 10:30 plane for Denver, with my final destination as Fort Worth.
I must compliment our Association for the United Nations in Utah. From the beginning it had a difficult time, as the Governor does not believe in the United Nations.
He is the first Republican Governor Utah has had in a long time. And he must belong, I think, to the reactionary wing of the Republican party, since he seems to be for economy at all costs, regardless of whether it is real economy or, in the long run, will cost more than it saves.
People everywhere like economy, but I think they are beginning to see that sometimes, when things are really needed, it is better to meet these needs as quickly as possible.
True, the Governor is honest in his convictions, and one cannot blame him for trying to live up to them. But neither is it strange that if you do not believe in the United Nations, you do not believe in spending money on education. In both cases, you are refusing to accept changes in the world. As a result of the lack of money for educational needs in Utah, its citizens are obliged to start now on a building program that should have been begun some years ago when the dollar paid for more than it does today.
It was encouraging to hear that one or two high schools, which had not intended to participate in the model assembly, were forced into it by the interest shown by their students. As a result, the number of high schools that took part was extraordinarily high.
While we were in Utah the newspapers were deeply concerned over a mine disaster in which four men were believed to have been killed. But while I was there the rescuers began to get response from them and later saved them.
The Salt Lake City Tribune gives more coverage to world news than do many papers on the West Coast. The Denver Post also is an excellent paper, publishing a good deal of news from the country as a whole as well as from the rest of the world.
The Friday newspaper in Salt Lake City carried the final accounts of the wedding of Grace Kelly and Prince Rainier III. Now we have lost one of the subjects that has taken up a large amount of space in our newspapers during the past weeks. The newspapers did not give as much space as I thought Secretary General Dag Hammarkskjold deserved in bringing about a truce between Israel and Egypt, but they did carry it on the first page.
This is the first step in what I fear is a long road to a possible settlement of the Near East situation. Of course, a good deal of attention was given to the troubles that might come between Great Britain and the United States on the handling of the Cyprus situation in the United Nations.
Sometimes I think people in certain areas of our country would like to see us have difficulties with our principal ally, but I hope there never will be any serious trouble between Great Britain and ourselves.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
