
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I took a jet plane to Miami Sunday for a speech in Hollywood, and was met at the airport and whisked to the Hollywood Beach Hotel.
Once there, I had to hurry a bit to make the dinner engagement on time, but the evening was very pleasant.
While in Hollywood, the beach looked extremely tempting to me, but I had no opportunity to bask in the sun. The weather was a bit cool but pleasant, and the children staying at the hotel seemed to be enjoying the little playground of their own, playing on the swings, rings and bars and the seesaws.
On Monday morning I had time to breakfast with an old friend before Mr. and Mrs. Hinton came to introduce me to their two lovely children and take me to a plane which flew me to Sarasota.
I arrived there at 12:45 p.m. and my uncle, David Gray, came to meet me. We had a delightful lunch together, and he drove me to the 3:25 p.m. plane which got me into New York at 7:25 p.m.
Altogether it was a satisfactory short trip, and I particularly enjoyed seeing my uncle before Christmas. I only hope that if I reach his age, I will have his sense of humor, his keenness about all that goes on in the world and his interest in young people. He wanted to know about all of my children and grandchildren, and he remembered even little details of their lives, which is more than I sometimes do.
I went to Philadelphia Tuesday to attend a membership drive luncheon for Deborah Hospital. This hospital was started by a Philadelphia woman many years ago for tuberculosis patients. Now it is largely devoted to heart surgery, for it is there that Dr. Charles Bailey has developed his skill in heart operations. The hospital also accepts patients with cancer of the lung, largely for operative purposes.
Deborah Hospital is free and nondenominational. Its only requirement for admission is that the patient cannot afford to pay for treatment.
This luncheon was held to enlist volunteers to raise money to meet the budget, and there were more than 1,200 present.
I mentioned sometime ago that I had a talk with two young African leaders about the help needed for families of those persons under political arrest in Africa. This need is being met through the Africa Defense and Aid Fund, which is part of the work of the AmericaAmerican Committee on Africa.
I was happy to have these groups tell me the other day that help has been forthcoming for the two young men who came to see me and, because they are unable to return to their own country, whose families have been under a great financial strain.
(Copyright, 1959, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
