
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Friday
                  —It has been good to read day by day of the acclaim which has greeted General Eisenhower in Washington, in New York and at West Point. Wherever he goes in this country, I am sure it will be the same. The welcome for our other generals has been equally warm and appreciative. They deserve it, and I am glad that we know how to show our gratitude.
General Eisenhower has taken all of his honors in a very modest spirit, always reminding people that he is the symbol of his men and that he accepts all this acclaim for his men as well as for himself. This has endeared him to the hearts of the American people. For no matter how humble your own soldier's role may be, he is the one who fights the war for you; and when you look at the General who was in supreme command in the European theater, you think of your own man.
From a military standpoint General Eisenhower has accomplished great things. I think his greatest achievement, however, has been to combine all the services of all the different nations and have them work together to attain success. There must have been times when he felt like a juggler with at least ten balls in the air at the same time.
I was interested to get a letter from Great Britain yesterday which shows that over there they have complaints similar to what one hears over here about the treatment of German prisoners of war. They sent me a table comparing what British civilian workers ate with what German prisoners of war received. Here it is:

                  
They are not forgetting, either, that Allied prisoners of war in Germany got per week, supposedly, 5 ozs. of sugar; 6 ozs. of fat; 5 ozs. of ersatz jam; 1.3 ozs. of cheese, and no bacon and no meat. As a matter of fact, the British prisoners coming home say that this is not what they really received. Breakfast was usually a slice of bread, made of potato and rye flour with wood pulp added, and a cup of herb tea; lunch, three rather small potatoes and another slice of bread; and at night, a slice of bread with some soup made of turnips and barley; and very occasionally, German soup-stew with a small amount of horse flesh in it.
The British are as soft-hearted as we are, aren't they? I wonder if the playing fields of Eton and our own public school playgrounds have made us feel that the beaten team must always have some consideration?
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
