
                  
                     HYDE PARK
                  —I am sure that people all over the country were glad to have the pleasant weather of the Memorial Day weekend, especially after the long stretch of cold and rainy spring days.
We had a busy Memorial day, with a buffet luncheon before the services which always take place here in the Rose Garden at Hyde Park around 2 P. M.p.m. I always have a tea afterwards for all my neighbors, so that we had a good many people coming in and out of my small cottage. I am always given a great deal of help, however, by all my family and guests who stay with me over this weekend. It never seems as though the day were a burden, because we all have fun in getting ready for our guests and in enjoying them while they are with us.
On Saturday my oldest son, James, and his wife came up for the night. This was a great joy, for they are rarely able to get away from Washington or from his many other commitments.
After Memorial Day was over we tried to spend a very quiet weekend, and I think we succeeded in having a pleasant time together.
A New York organization called "Youth of All Nations, Inc.," has sent me a magazine called "Mirror For Youth," which they publish for young people in countries all over the world. But they need money to do this, and money is one of the difficult things for organizations such as this one to obtain. Students in many countries may join and receive this magazine which tries to have many areas of the world represented in each edition and to encourage correspondence between young people of different countries. There is a story in this issue about a young man named Donald Gum, a teacher who contributes of his time, talent and money to the sole idea of communication among people in different countries. I think that if you will look into this little paper you will feel, as I do, that it has value in drawing together young people of different countries, and you may want to do something to help.
I would also like to mention that if you are looking for a play school for your child's summer days, there is a helpful pamphlet published by the Play Schools Association, 41 West 57th Street, New York City. I think every parent will find it useful because it tells you what to look for when you go to visit play schools. This association will also help you to find play schools or day camps or some kind of supervised play school program in the area where you need it. This is one way of helping to keep down juvenile delinquency.
(COPYRIGHT, 1958, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
