
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I have just returned from the Maritime Provinces
of Canada, of which of course Newfoundland is now one, since it
became a province a little more than 10 years ago.
Two fine buildings dominate the capital city of St. John's —
 one is the Confederation Building and one is the new university.
This school, Memorial University, is Newfoundland's first school of
higher education and is a great milestone in its progress. Now many
young people who cannot afford to go away for their education may be
able to have it in their own capital.
The land around St. John's generally is poor land. To the
west, I was told, the Ice Age was kinder and the top soil was not
carried down into the sea. But the people of St. John's have lived,
in great part, by the sea. The "banks" were probably formed by
their top soil, and for that reason the fish are fed plentifully
there.
The dedication ceremonies of the new university, which was my
primary reason for being in St. John's as the representative of
President Kennedy, brought back to the city many people from South
Africa, the United States, Great Britain and many other areas. Many
Newfoundlanders had gone out into the world to seek their fortunes
and had made great successes of their lives.
Jestingly I was told that because of the American bases that
were established in Newfoundland during World War II the Newfoundlanders
had made a peaceful penetration and conquest of the U.S.A.,
for some 25,000 to 30,000 of our military forces have married
Newfoundland girls! The tie, however, between the U.S. and Newfoundland
is not a new one nor entirely one-sided, for many men from
Newfoundland seem to have married American girls.
Our day on Monday began with a parade of school children, and
I was proudly told that Newfoundland had the highest birth rate of
any part of our continent and the lowest death rate. The children
certainly looked well and handsome, and the hardships of the climate
quite evidently agree with them.
There are no public schools as such. The schools are all run
by the churches, but the government foots the entire bill. Whether
this gives the government control over curriculums I do not know.
But in the university, which of necessity must be under government
control, it seems to me that the standards set for entrance will mean
that the government will have some kind of control over the general
standards of education. There will be fees paid at the university,
but I was told they will be low and that the number of scholarships
granted by the government is already fairly high and will be higher.
I was also told by everyone how popular our country stands
with the people of Newfoundland, and I was accorded every consideration.
Since I stayed at Government House, certain formalities were
observed, and both at lunch and dinner Lt. Gov. Campbell L. Macpherson
arose after the dessert and proposed a toast to the Queen. Then
all sat down. A second later he rose again and proposed a toast to
the President of the United States.
The highlight of the daytime ceremonies was in the afternoon
at the university. Everyone was asked to wear academic gowns and
hoods and it was a most colorful occasion. Representatives from
many universities were seated on one side of the center platform
and the clergy were on the other. Officials of the new university
and guests were located in the center.
Premier J.R. Smallwood made a speech giving the background of
the story of the university, and then asked me to present the key to
the Chancellor, Mr. Roy Thompson. This gentleman is a publisher of
newspapers all over the world, and his two most recent acquisitions
are in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. He is a delightful person and at the
ceremony wore a most impressive gown.
Premier Smallwood also gave token keys to a number of other
persons as a remembrance of the occasion, including the Duke of
Devonshire, the representative of the Queen; the Prime Minister of
Canada, Hon. John G. Diefenbaker; Lieutenant Governor Macpherson and
myself. Following this all the universities represented brought
messages of congratulation.
A most colorful part of the whole program was the participation
of the Royal Jamaica band. It contributed music at various functions
throughout the day, and at the evening banquet was joined by a choir
of 80 voices, which sang folk songs very delightfully.
I am happy to say that I came home with most delightful
memories of a part of the world which my husband and I enjoyed for
many years.
(Copyright, 1961, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
