
                  
                     NEW YORK. 
                        Monday
                     
                  —It cannot be said that the summit talks in Paris opened under the best possible circumstances. Someone suggested to me that Mr. Khrushchev's indignation and burst of childish rage over the shooting down of our plane—which proved that we were flying over Soviet territory—was perhaps partly due to the fact that he had been convinced that we were really not undertaking any of this kind of flying and had so persuaded some of the people about him. These people, it is said, always felt that his policy toward us was rather too soft.
Therefore, the U-2 plane incident hurt his own prestige at home and made him feel that we had proved his judgment of us to have been incorrect.
This does not, of course, excuse the intemperate threats of bombs over Norway and other such remarks.
I only hope now, despite the current feeling between the East and the West, that the summit talks will produce some kind of understanding and that the past hard feelings will be forgotten.
Mr. Khrushchev must know that innumerable communications have gone from citizens in this country to our President, asking for action on preventing nuclear tests and begging for a beginning on disarmament. And we hope that the President himself will feel that these people represent a sufficient number in our country so that he can pay some heed to them.
They may, therefore, balance out some of the fears that military minded people may try to insist are the most important approach to a more peaceful military situation.
If we are ever to get rid of the fears between nations, some kind of international inspection must be agreed upon, and I hope every effort will be made to attain this result.
On May 20, 21 and 22 in the plaza of Rockefeller Center, here, the Community Service Society is holding a family fair. This will be the first fair of its kind to be held in this city in more than 30 years, I am told, and the very first ever to be held in Rockefeller Plaza.
It sounds to me as though it would be entertaining and really be of interest to the whole family. There will be music and dancing, games of skill, exhibits and other attractions; in fact, there will be something so that every age can have a good time.
So, here is an opportunity to help the Community Service Society, which has done such good work for our city.
(Copyright, 1960, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
