
                  
                     WASHINGTON.—I am very sad that the Soviets vetoed the proposal for international inspection of the Arctic, for when we accepted the Swedish amendment to this plan I felt we were moving toward something that both sides could accept and that we were really ready to have a summit conference with disarmament on the agenda.
When murmurs came from Secretary of State John Foster Dulles that our position on nuclear tests might be modified, I suppose I allowed myself to be a little more hopeful than I had a right to be.
If we do not trust the United Nations and put more power in its hands, I do not see how we are going to make any progress in the field of disarmament. And it is regrettable to have the U.N. Secretary General attacked by the Soviets because he urged them to put more power in the U.N.
It is only in the U.N. where power can be safely placed, and until we give this power to that organization we will continue trying to keep it in our own hands, where it always will be a menace.
It was interesting to read of the arrangements for the exchange of Russian and American students. This evidently is not going to be an exchange whereby the young people of one nation spend a year of study in a university of the other country, but rather a short period of travel.
I am happy to see that half of both teams, Russian and American, will speak the language of the country they are visiting.
The two fortunate landings last Friday by two airlines with damaged landing gear re-emphasizesreemphasizes the importance of proper servicing of our airplanes by ground crews.
The Israeli plane landed anat Idlewild without one wheel and with 74 persons aboard. The other plane landed at Newark after going off the runway. It carried 42 passengers and five crewmen.
I was amused by the comment that the seating capacity of the proposed Lincoln Square Concert Center for New York City had to be revised because Americans are growing larger these days.
A hall seating 2,400 persons has been decided upon, whereas the seating capacity of Carnegie Hall, which this new hall will replace, is 2,760. The plan had been to have the same number of seats in the new hall. But since Americans are growing taller, the capacity had to be revised downward.
Whether Americans are growing bigger because they are better fed or for some other reason, I am not informed. But perhaps we had better make a study of this, for we certainly do not want to producedproduce race of giants and have to change not only our concert halls but our homes!
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
