
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —I received a telegram from C. B. Baldwin, who asks me to correct an impression. I have given my readers which he says is erroneous. I quote his telegram here with pleasure:
"I was shocked to read the following statement in today's World Telegram—Judging from the statements of C. B. Baldwin, campaign manager for Mr. Wallace, the test of a liberal by the third party will not have anything to do with his stand on domestic questions. Any oneAnyone who favors the Marshall Plan is automatically ruled out.' I have never made such a statement and never will make such a statement. The new party will make its own decisions in a purely democratic way regarding support or denial of support of candidates. It will be our recommendation that in each case the entire record of candidates be considered. I hope you will have the generosity to correct this completely erroneous statement which has now reached your large audience. C.B.C. B. Baldwin."
I am glad, of course, to have this assurance on the part of Mr. Baldwin. I never intended to convey the impression that he had made such a statement in plain words—only that his statements and, I might add, some of the actions of the third party organization had led one to believe that this was the case. I cannot, for instance, see any other reason but opposition to the Marshall Plan for the naming of third-party candidates against Prof. Paul Douglas and Adlai Stevenson in Illinois.
It is, of course, quite easy to understand that no one following the Communist party line could favor any oneanyone supporting the Marshall Plan. I am so glad to know that the third party has a way, which is "purely democratic," of making its own decisions.
The delegates to the United Nations from the USSR constantly talk of their democratic way of doing things. I suppose the purely democratic way was followed in Czechoslovakia, and will be followed whenever there is another political taking-over of the government of a small and defenseless state within the Russian orbit.
I am going down to Washington today for some meetings in relation to the work of the UNU.N. Human Rights Commission. Also, as a member of the Board of Trustees of Howard University, I shall be very happy to be able to attend the Charter Day Banquet at the university, where I shall have an opportunity to meet two of the three men honored with the annual alumni awards—Dr. Edward Arthur Balloch, in medical education; Dean William S. Nelson, in religious education; and the late Prof. George M. Lightfoot, in liberal education.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
