
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —On Monday of this week I spoke for the Military Chaplains of the United States at luncheon and then attended a board meeting of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. This was the first I have been able to attend since Walter White's death. I find they are considering a suitable memorial to him and I hope something that will stand as a continuing reminder of his work can be devised.
In the evening I went to a board meeting for Wiltwyck School and was reminded again of the need for interracial understanding and better conditions for the youngsters of this city no matter what their race, creed, or color.
Tuesday I spent at Hyde Park. The Governor, Mr. Averell Harriman, came to lay a wreath on my husband's grave, and Mr. and Mrs. Henry Morgenthau Jr. and my sons, Franklin Jr. and John, and their wives were there to greet the governor. Later a service was held at the grave by the Roosevelt Home Club and the Roosevelt Memorial Foundation. It was a simple and fitting memorial service on this 10th anniversary.
An old friend, Mr. Bernard M. Baruch, sent me a letter which he had sent to Mr. C. P. Palmer, President of the Warm Springs Memorial Association, and as it was undoubtedly read at Warm Springs on the 12th. I think Mr. Baruch would not mind if I quoted from it in this column. He wrote as follows:
"When history is written, in Franklin D. Roosevelt's record four things will stand out before everything else: 1. His interest in human beings and their welfare, as is exemplified in the social legislation which he passed and which is being carried further to this day;
"2. As President of the U.S. and commanderCommander-in-chiefChief of its forces, he was the main factor in winning the greatest war of all time;
"3. He brought about the creation of a United Nations in the framework of which, if nations so willed it, a peace can be written—a peace which mankind has yearned for over the ages. If he had lived, this would have been further advanced. And some of the things for which he has been criticized would have been avoided or their influence lessened;
"4. And not the least, he gave hope to countless disabled by conquering an affliction which struck him in the prime of his life and which he overcame to go on to be the Governor of the State of New York and President of the U.S. four times.
"Franklin D. Roosevelt and I had many differences, but he never personified them. I was privileged and honored to be called upon by him. He was always generous in his recognition of any services anyone performed."
That seems to me a remarkably fine tribute to any human being 10 years after his death, and I think it a good memorial.
(Distributed by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
