
                  
                     POCATELLO, IDAHOPOCATELLO, Idaho, Tuesday
                  —We had a busy time last week endweekend at Hyde Park. I was particularly glad to see Mr. and Mrs. Victor Hammer and Mrs. Hammer Sr., who had not been at my place for some time.
On Saturday morning I took Mr. and Mrs. Clark Eichelberger, who were also staying with me, over to the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library. Mr. Eichelberger had been to Hyde Park a number of times to see my husband in the past, but he had not seen the place since it had become a museum and open to the public.
On Saturday for lunch, Mrs. Dick Sporborg and Mrs. Picker came up from New York to join us, so we had a large party and a very pleasant one. Everyone seemed to get along well together and to enjoy themselves.
In the afternoon, some of the members of the 240th Military Police group, which trained at Hyde Park and guarded my husband on his visits home and which now holds an annual reunion every autumn, came to tea. In the evening, Mr. and Mrs. Hammer sang for us and everyone of us felt it was a delight to hear them.
On Sunday, my uncle, David Gray, travelled back to New York with us. On Monday I flew out here to the Northwest and you will hear from me during the next few days at various points of this trip. I am here on behalf of the American Association for the United Nations in the hope of getting better organization in the states of Montana, Idaho and Wyoming, which I did not visit last year.
The book I told you about some time ago, "Rainbow Round the World" was published on September 20th. You will remember that it is a book about UNICEF, the first story, I believe, ever written about this organization for children, and I am sure that the grown-ups in the family will find that they also enjoy Elizabeth Yates' story.
I also have received a very useful book about the Declaration of Independence published by Oxford University Press. This is a book that would be valuable in anyone's library, particularly where they have children who should learn the background and history of this great document. Every time I come back to Hyde Park I find a large number of books waiting for me to get a chance to read them. I am not going to give you their names because I think it will be some weeks before I can tell you that I have really read them. Books are a priceless possession, but at times I feel rather cheated because I do not have the time to read all the things I want to read.
It is interesting to know that the Watkins committee report on Senator McCarthy is now complete but that it will not be acted upon until after the election. Perhaps this is a wise procedure since the election should be decided on questions affecting the situation in the various states and the issues in our foreign relations which affect the people through their representatives in the Congress and the Senate. This report on Senator McCarthy deals with a situation that involves the integrity and beliefs of our whole people. I believe it should have consideration free from election-time politics.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
