
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Tuesday
                  —I notice that three teachers have arrived in New York City on the exchange basis. Two from Scotland to teach at Chappaqua, New York, and one from Birmingham, England, to teach in Endicott, New York. I heard of three American teachers not long ago who have gone to teach in different places in Great Britain.
I hope that all the teachers who go over there will come to know, wherever they are, the representatives of the women's voluntary services. I am sure these representatives will help them to know better the communities in which they work and will help to make their year abroad a more profitable one. Over here our women's groups should try to do all they can for the visiting exchange teachers in our midst.
When I was in England last spring I attended a very remarkable meeting of delegates from units of the women's voluntary services from all over England. The representatives of different areas told what aid sent from the United States had meant in their areas during the war; what was being done by them in memory of the U. S.U.S. wartime assistance, such as caring for graves, doing things for exchange students, etc. It was a very moving meeting and one which expressed well the appreciation for America's help. Meetings of this kind have great value in building the peace of the future. They put into words the reasons why friendship exists between nations.
Meetings of this kind should be held in all parts of the world. At the least the women would feel that they had something tangible to hold onto, and a point of departure in their efforts toward peaceful cooperation. Many, many women are writing me today asking: "Where can we begin to work for peace in the way we worked together for war?" It seems to me that this beginning should be made in our own communities. We should see that unity exists among our people here at home, that there is no race or religious prejudice dividing us in our own community and that we achieve the best possible government.
The New York Herald-Tribune has done a great service in publishing Mr. Ray Sprigle's articles. They paint for us most vividly the situation of the Negro in the South, but they should also jog our memories of his situation in every one of our communities. Conditions may vary but there are always some situations reminiscent of the Southern attitude. The same situation prevails in a greater or lesser degree where the Mexican or the red Indian or the Chinese or the Jew live in large numbers in any of our cities. Supposedly enlightened people still hold many of the prejudices accepted and practiced by our Southern citizens. What we do for the peace of the world begins right here at home.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
