
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —This is going to be a column with a number of little items in it.
First, I have to correct a mistake I made in a recent column. I attributed an article by A.A. Berle to the U.N. Reporter instead of to the Reporter Magazine.
I attended the first anniversary of the organization of the World Parliament of Religions at the Presbyterian Labor Temple on Sunday evening. This group is hopeful that with the blessing of the U.N. the World Parliament of Religions can be permanently established here. This would, of course, be a great help to mutual understanding. It would bring to our attention more frequently the fact that there are many religions in the world, and while they are similar in many respects, they also have great differences in ritual and in the names they use. God can be the same under a variety of names. As religion is so important in the lives of all people, our understanding of the various world religions will help in our understanding of one another and help us all to grow in the will to peace.
I have received a protest from Louis Budenz who says that I falsely attributed to him a statement naming Clarence Pickett and Earl Harrison as Communists. I read in some newspaper, the name of which I cannot now remember, that he had numbered them among others whom he has "remembered" as being Communists. Since he now insists that he did not do so, I am delighted to learn through a friend of his that he would like a retraction from me. I take this to mean that he has no reservations about these two gentlemen. Nothing could give me greater pleasure, since I thought it was becoming a little too much if we were asked to believe that these two men were Communists.
From Saturday afternoon until Sunday afternoon in the country was simply glorious. I only hope that the plants and the trees will not begin to think that spring is here and get nipped by the last snow of winter. All the little streams are running full and mud is everywhere.
I had a delightful 24 hours with a houseful of young people; I left reluctantly, just as another grandson was arriving with a friend for the night.
I had time over the weekendweekend to look at the new Herblock Book, a collection of cartoons that records some of our political history and its many vagaries. All of the cartoons and the text in the book were done by Mr. Block, and I think it will become one of the books we will want to keep near at hand and to look at over and over again. If we do it often enough it may save us from some of the things that I fear we are tending toward at the present time. Laughter is a good antidote for hysteria.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
