
                  
                     PARIS, Tuesday
                  —I visited a little place in France the other day which reminded me of something I had written about in this column only a few days ago.—the American Girl Scouts' "Clothes for Friendship" campaign. I was told that layettes for expectant mothers were among the things most appreciated from the United States.
Your interest in this 1948 program of activity by the Girl Scouts probably was more intensified recently because of National Girl Scout Week, but don't let it fade because the week has passed. Their campaign will continue indefinitely and they are eager for your help.
All members of this fine and truly American organization have pledged themselves to collect and send to war-devastedwar-devastated areas in Europe and Asia one million warm garments for children under fifteen years of age.
The commermorativecommemorative stamp honoring Juliette Gordon Low, founderessfoundress of the Girl Scouts, which was issued by our government late last month should be your reminder of this worthy project.
It would have been my great pleasure to have attended the testimonial dinner given at the Waldorf Astoria in New York City recently by the New York University Law School in honor of my good friend, United States Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Florence E. Allen.
Judge Allen is the only graduate of the school to achieve this eminence of being on the bench of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, as well as being the only woman ever to hold such a high judicial office.
A room in the university's new law center, which will be built on Washington Square in New York, will be dedicated to her. Half the money for this dedication was raised by an alumnus committee under Judge Dorothy Kenyon.
It is fitting and only natural that a room in this famous law center should be dedicated to a woman since this was the first law school, founded in 1835, to open its doors to women students. Some eight hundred women have been graduated from it since 1891.
Since I first met Judge Allen, I have had great respect and great admiration for her, and though I was unable to attend the dinner given in her honor, I did send my good wishes.
I would like to add, that if a President of the United States should decide to nominate a woman for the Supreme Court, it should be Judge Allen.
She will be a nominee with a backing, on a completely nonpartisiannonpartisan basis, of American women who know her career and her accomplishments.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
