
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —Friday afternoon, before leaving the city, I went to see two television shows previously done by CBS for the Human Rights educational program. The U.N. is going to have the privilege of using these as far afield as they can obtain distribution.
Needless to say, I never am happy when I am in a television show. In the first place, I cannot remember that I am being photographed every minute and I do such stupid things as lick my lips when they get dry, which makes you look exactly as though you were sticking your tongue out at someone.
Perhaps with greater experience I will do a little better, but meanwhile I envy all those who appeared with me—they seemed to achieve so much better television manners than I did. My admiration for my daughter-in-law, Faye, who does these television appearances regularly, rises every time I go on. The lights are hot and, on the whole, I think the results are none too happy for me—but for Faye they seem to be marvelous, and that is because she is really a good actress.
On Thursday night I spoke on the subject of human rights before the fourth annual Intercollegiate Institute on the United Nations. This is in large part a group from our own colleges, with some students from foreign countries. One or two of those present had previously heard me speak on the subject and were already well briefed on the Declaration. I tried in addition, of course, to bring them up to date on work done on the covenant during the recent session of the Human Rights Commission.
These young people are sent as delegates by the various college associations who are making an effort to familiarize themselves with the working of the United Nations. Some of them come all the way from California and many from the Middle West. They asked quite a number of questions afterwards and told me of their trips to Lake Success, of the talks they had heard there and about the various sessions of committees and commissions which they had attended.
Friday noon I had the pleasure of joining a group discussing the Tuition Plan. This group as a foundation has published two books—one a study by Benjamin Fine of the New York Times, and one a study by Dr. McIntosh. Both of them deal with college problems from different angles and are valuable in their field. They are now trying to analyze the problem of the private school and its value in a democratic community, and will issue a book on the subject to be written by a well-known educator. The whole question of private schools today is important not only in this country, but in other countries throughout the world.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1949, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
