
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —In spite of the fact that all through the year I try to pick up Christmas gifts for my friends and members of the family, I find myself around this time of the year frantically going over my lists to make sure that I have forgotten no one.
There is one suggestion which, I think, many of us might like to remember, because on all our lists we find people who really want nothing that we can buy. In these cases you can turn to CARE.
CARE will send, in the name of the person to whom you wish to give a present, a food crusade package overseas. This organization will give you a beautiful gift card announcement to send your friends here, telling them of the joy they are giving to hungry people in some other part of the world.
These cards will be something your friends will look at and take satisfaction in for a long time, picturing to themselves the people who are thanking them for the gift you have sent in their name.
Under the new regime, CARE is able to function again in Poland, helping workers there, many of whom get only $60 a month and must meet a cost of living which is comparable to that in many other European cities.
CARE is distributing tool kits for various trades as well as medical and technical assistance. To reach as many individuals as possible, it makes its contributions to institutions, vocational schools, orphanages, clinics, and training centers for the physically disabled.
Poland has a tremendous number of war casualties. In the Soviet Union, one sees a great many veterans who have not yet been provided with artificial limbs or given training in the use of these limbs, but in Poland they have had to lag even further behind. Antibiotics are being given to hospitals, and food and textiles go to needy families.
I feel sure that you will find that anyone to whom you give this kind of a CARE holiday gift will be happy to receive it.
Little Rock, Ark., still seems to be battling aginst the Supreme Court in round-aboutroundabout ways!
NAACP officials have been arrested because they did not comply with a recently-enacted city ordinance which gives the city the right to examine the membership and financial records of any organization. This, of course, would put in the hands of the city  the names of people who would then be made the targets of special threats and probably would be subject to financial and other handicaps. So the organization would immediately lose many of its members.
This explains a natural reluctance to give out the names. But, of course, I image that wiping out an organization is the objective of this ordinance.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
