
                  
                     MILFORD, Conn..—When I reached Kansas City, Missouri, on my trip last week, it was already midnight, but two kind women from the American Association of University Women nevertheless were there to meet me at the airport.
I was very glad to see Miss Corr there, but not so delighted at the volume of mail awaiting me. However, the next morning was free until nearly noon, so we accomplished a good deal. At noon there was a press conference, at one o'clock a luncheon with members of the board of the AAUW, and at three o'clock a speech with a question and answer period. This could have gone on indefinitely, I think, but at a convention of the AAUW their meetings are pretty closely scheduled and I had to be finished and off the stage by four o'clock.
Back at the Muehlbach Hotel I attended a reception given by our newly formed subcommittee for speakers on the U. N. This is part of our American Association for the U. N. program and Mrs. Pauline Rivers, who heads our speakers' bureau, was on hand to spark the opening. The people there seemed very enthusiastic and I hope they will have a very successful development of speakers.
Former President Truman managed to come over and I was delighted to see him, though I know it is very difficult for him to leave Mrs. Truman. She is home now, but still very weak and far from well. They are waiting until she is strong enough to come East when they can see their new grandchild, and I hope I will have an opportunity to see them both at that time.
Miss Corr and I caught a 6:30 plane to Chicago, where we spent a comfortable night at the Blackstone Hotel. On Wednesday morning we were on our way to the airport again at a quarter before 11, she returning to New York while I went on to Milwaukee to speak in the evening for the Wisconsin Home Economics Association. A four o'clock press conference preceded the dinner and speech at the auditorium, after which I took the 11:20 plane back to New York.
I like night flying. If you can sleep—and I usually can—the trip is over quickly; and even if you do get in at 4:10 in the morning, you can still have a couple of hours in your own bed and wake up feeling fresh and ready to start a new day.
Thursday was an exciting morning for me because my daughter and her husband, Dr. James Halsted, returned for a three months' vacation from Iran. I stopped in to see them at my grandson's apartment before I started on the rest of the day's activities.
Friday I left at noon for Hyde Park, where my daughter-in-law, Mrs. John Roosevelt, and I shared preparations for the wedding of my niece, Mrs. Eleanor Elliott, to George Roach on Saturday afternoon. Mrs. Elliott's mother, Mrs. John Cutter, gave a party on Friday night at the Norrie Point Inn for the members of the family, and all in all this was a busy but very gay weekend.
(COPYRIGHT, 1959, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
