
                  
                     WASHINGTON.—On Thursday afternoon, immediately after lunch, I arrived here where Mrs. Helm met me. I visited my old friend, Mrs. Adolph Miller, and then had the pleasure of meeting a number of friends at tea with Mrs. Helm.
I am staying with my son, James, who, however, deserted me Friday afternoon and flew to the Coast. But he tells me he will be back before I leave.
This trip to Washington is for the annual conference of the American Association for the United Nations. Members of the board of governors of the association, all of whom are state presidents or chairmen of chapters with 500 or more members, met Friday morning at the Shoreham Hotel. They convened during the morning in committee groups to finalize their consideration of a number of subjects.
After an informal luncheon, the plenary meeting began and continued during the evening and all day Saturday. The board of directors met Saturday evening and on Sunday, after lunch, the annual meeting opened, with delegates from organizations who are interested in the United Nations attending. This continued through Sunday afternoon and later I will tell you about points of interest that came up.
I have had the opportunity in odd moments to meet some of my old friends here, but I never have enough time to see all the people I would like to see while in Washington.
There has just come to me from the Washington headquarters of the American Forest Products Industries a collection of material called the Forest Resources Handbook. It states that "this reference book has been prepared by the lumber, pulp and paper, plywood and allied forest industries of the United States specifically for your use. From time to time, as later data becomes available, it will be sent to you for inclusion in this handbook."
This is an extremely interesting collection of information, some of it drawn from government agencies and some from private sources. The emphasis, of course, is on the fact that the forestry practices of commercial interests have improved greatly, which I think is true.
Forest products industries are particularly insistent that the problem of preserving our forests lies more heavily on the "4.5 million farmers owning 60 percent of the country's commercial forest land, although individually most (85 percent) hold fewer than 100 acres of timberland each."
I want to go through all this material more carefully and write you again on this subject, because the preservation of our forests is one of the most important things we have to consider today.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
