
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —I am beginning to accumulate material on various matters which other people know a great deal about but which I know very little about, that may come up in this next session of the United Nations Organization. As a result I am quite sure that I shall not have an idle minute on the boat.
In addition the names which are coming in of people who can give me the background and history of certain subjects that may come up for discussion indicate that I will be kept busy just seeing people the first few days I am in London.
Obviously the columns which appear while I am on the ship will be written before we leave, and quite obviously, too, since I belong to a profession which has a high standard of ethics, I am not going to be able to write anything which the rest of the press will not also be writing, as far as official information is concerned.
I think, however, that you will be interested in the life of the people in London as I am able to observe it and compare it with the period when I was there in 1942. The little daily happenings which come out of the human contacts one is bound to have in a foreign country, and which are quite outside of any official tasks, may prove interesting to my readers.
I shall, of course, take every possible opportunity to see old friends in London whom I knew in this country and whom I have met in official or unofficial ways during the years before we lived in Washington and while we were there.
I gather from the papers that Mr. and Mrs. Winston Churchill will be coming over here and so I shall probably miss seeing them, but I hope I will get back before their holiday in Florida comes to an end.
I hope I shall find people on many of the other delegations whom I have met in the past and who will serve as an introduction to many new people with whom we must become acquainted during this session.
After this, I gather that the permanent home of the United Nations Organization will be established somewhere on our eastern seaboard and the future meetings will be held in this country. Then the people of the United States will be hosts to this important group and we will have a great responsibility to make the delegates feel at home among us.
Last night I went to see the play "The Glass Menagerie." It has a kind of gentleness and sweetness and sadness which I think has been characteristic of Eddie Dowling's productions. It is completely charming, with a small but wonderful cast.

                  Laurette Taylor, Eddie Dowling, Julie Haydon and Anthony Ross all put on a most beautiful performance. The portrait on the wall seemed almost part of the acting group. The mother was enraging but, nevertheless, appealing. The play left me with a slightly melancholy feeling, but then I think there are times when all of us rather luxuriate in that kind of mood. The lessons are gently taught and probably that is the best way to make them stay in our minds.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
