
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Wednesday
                  —Yesterday someone came in to me quite excited and remarked, "I have just heard over the radio that one of our distinguished members of Congress, who is occasionally rather violent in his likes and dislikes, thinks that Dr. Albert Einstein should be deported."
Naturally I asked why, and I was told, "Simply because he advocates some kind of super judicial control of atomic energy."
Still I was bewildered. "But," I said, "Dr. Einstein will have a great many people being deported at the same time. Ever since the United States put Bernard M. Baruch's plan before the United Nations, nearly everyone except the Russians and their satellites, as far as I know, has been advocating just that."
If my recollection is correct, we wanted international control of the sources of atomic energy and international inspection. This is, in essence, what Dr. Einstein is advocating with somewhat greater urgency than ever before in view of the fact that we now face the possibility of having shortly in our midst a weapon even deadlier than the atom bomb.
Of course, it may be that the Congressman mentioned above has not yet quite understood what the policy advocated by most of the nations in the world really means, nor what this new weapon might mean to the world as a whole. Perhaps he is hoping that we can retain this knowledge in our hands alone, and thereby hold a threat over the heads of other people.
Unfortunately, once the basic knowledge is generally known there is little hope that other scientists besides our own will not be making similar discoveries. The only real safety we can look forward to is a real international agreement under which we all will be inspected and trust the United Nations to keep peace in the world.
It is true that Russia recognizes the voice of force and power, but I think it must be the combined voice of the world as a whole insisting that because of fear of one another we refuse to continue going down the path to destruction.
I had a letter today from a woman in the Middle West who wants to know why the United Nations, through the Food and Agriculture Organization, does not have something to say in the question of the surpluses that exist in the world. I don't suppose that the FAO could actually dictate the policy to any country, but I should think they could shortly make available to all countries information which would make it easier for them to make their complete plans for distribution of their products.
I get mail every now and then complaining that we are slipping down the road to socialism, and I do not know whether planning for the better distribution of goods throughout the world would be something that would give further impetus. Nevertheless, it seems to me necessary to do something along these lines.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
