
                  
                     PARIS, Thursday.—The death of General Jean de Lattre de Tassigny has been a great loss to the French people who looked on him as a tower of strength in Indo China. He was one always to put duty ahead of everything else. He inspired great confidence in his troops in the field as well as in his people at home and was deserving of the high tributes paid him by General Eisenhower and French government ministers.
Reflecting on the two-hour speech of Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Vishinsky, introducing a resolution detailing what Russia thought should be done on disarmament, it seems almost incredible to expect so much patience from the other delegations here. Quite obviously, he was proposing something which should have been brought before the disarmament commission which the Assembly has just set up. It is not the Political Committee but the disarmament commission that must work out such procedures for disarmament.
There is one delicious line in the Soviet proposals. It says there must be inspection but in no way must this inspection interfere with the internal affairs of any country. One is inclined to ask what good an inspection would be which might somehow search into the internal affairs of the country it was inspecting.
We proceeded to have more fruitless discussions in Committee Three. It seems almost impossible to bring our committees to a vote on anything and I sometimes wonder whether we should not try to have our sessions shorter, even if we had to meet twice a year. One hears much less now of the possibility of having the next session here instead of in the United States, and I hope that the idea will die without anyone really trying to bring it formally to the attention of the gGeneral aAssembly.
I spent an hour the other afternoon with a group called the Federation Internationale des Artes, des Lettres, des Sciences, and was presented with a diploma and entertained with a delightful half hour of music.
One young man who had dedicated one of his compositions to my husband and me played it beautifully. He his an American citizen though of Russian origin, and he is returning shortly to the United States in the hope of increasing his contact with various orchestras.
Mr. and Mrs. Dayal of India and Prince and Princess Naim of Afghanistan came to dine with me this week, and Prince Naim left with me two or three pamphlets dealing with his country. One of them has some interesting pictures, which make one want to see Afghanistan.
The more I talk with people from distant parts of the world, the more I want to see their countries. As both my neighbors talked about the Himalayas and said how these mountain ranges looked like great waves of the sea, the more I realized that there was much beauty in the world that is a closed book to many of us.
I was trying to find out about the most popular sports in Afghanistan and Prince Naim mentioned all the games that we play. But now that I have had time to look into the pamphlets I realize there are other games that require more skill than our baseball, football and tennis, and all of them sound more dangerous.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
