
                  
                     FLINT, Mich.Monday.—We arrived in Flint, Michigan, on Sunday after a good flight out, though the trip from Cleveland to Flint was a trifle bumpy. It is some years since I have been here, but General Motors has moved into this area and the mayor who met us at the plane seemed to feel that a great many things were going to be done because of the expected growth of the population during the next few years.
They told me with great pride that they would fly this year the All-American flag which denotes that they have through communal cooperation built up a whole section of their community that was destroyed by a tornado. I did not know of this distinction given to certain cities before and I certainly think it is a very fine idea.
I find that the Mott Foundation here is doing much for the people. They have established adult evening school classes at 30 centers in Flint and they are now presenting their first radio course in cooperation with a local radio station, WFDF. It will be a 13-week course taught by Charles Hampton, Flint Junior College history instructor, and the course is to be called "The U.N., what's in it for me?" Mr. Hampton will explain the origin and operation of the United Nations and what it means in the lives of our people. It will be broadcast on Monday evenings at 10:15 P.Mp.m. Everyone, of course, can listen but if you enroll and send your name and address with 25 cents to the U.N. course in care of the radio station, you will receive an outline of the course, a bibliography and supplementary reading materials.
This idea rejoices me because it is exactly what I would like to see happen through the activity of our chapters in various other places throughout the United States, since the whole reason for organizing the American Association for the U.N. is to get out information about the U.N. An idea like this which has sprung into being without any prodding from the Association will, I hope help to get a good organization going in the state.
I spoke Sunday night for Congregation Beth Israel in Flint on the subject of Israel and the Arab states.
After my arrival in Flint I did a recording with Mrs. Beagle who has a program primarily beamed at career women. She is a member of the Altrusa Club of which I am also a member and she asked me the ever recurring question: "What can women do to help the U.N.?"
Immediately after the recording was done there was a press conference attended by a considerable number of high school students as well as the representatives of newspapers and radio stations in this area. A number of people came in to see me but unfortunately I was not able to spend more than a few minutes with them since my time is so carefully scheduled.
We leave Flint bound for Fayetteville, Arkansas, where I am to speak at the university.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
