
                  
                     GLENS FALLS, N.Y.Thursday.—Six months or more ago Senator Herbert H. Lehman read into the appendix of the record in Congress a statement about "the celebration of the hundredth anniversary of an interesting, wholesome, and completely American activity, the Jewish Community Center Movement." He explained that last autumn would inaugurate the six months' observance of this movement and he pointed out that today there are more than 350 centers and more than half a million members. He said, "through the World Federation of Y.W.H.A.'s and Jewish Community Centers the movement is spreading its beneficent influence through the rest of the democratic world." He explained that the movement was "a vigorous force for democracy. A center gives the American Jew those enriching experiences which help make him a better Jew and a better citizen and therefore a happier and more interesting person."
This movement is one which all our citizens should appreciate and I am happy that a little later on I shall be able to speak in New York at the 92nd Street Y.M.H.A. which has such a varied program that it meets the needs of young and old alike.
I left New York on Monday night for Montreal. We arrived on a gloomy rainy morning. The snow was rapidly melting and it was quite warm weather. I suppose we will have another change before I get back to New York and I will find it very cold. I like Montreal, the city, and I wish it had been pleasant weather so that we could have walked about a little and seen it.
When we spent our summers in Campobello Island, I used to shop in Montreal and I still remember the names of some of the old shops. The grocer was Fraser Vigee. My mother-in-law would get the boys imported little English, short blue trousers and sailor tops, and sometimes a whole outfit of dark blue blanket coat with red flannel lining and a sash.
They were wonderfully warm and comfortable winter outfits but I am told there is a new kind of winter coat now that all the children wear and I would have liked to look about in the shops even though I no longer spend my summers on Campobello Island with a large and hungry family to feed and clothe.
I made my speech at a women's lunch in the Sheraton Mount Royal Hotel. Later we attended a cocktail party where I drank tea and finally I dined with the Consul General of Israel. I was happy to see Mrs. Camay and to learn that her husband is now the Minister to Canada from Israel. I hope that next summer something may bring them down to New York State so they can spend a little time with me, for he was so kind when I travelled round Israel.
Tuesday morning bright and early we left Montreal by train for Ft. Edward where we were picked up and driven to Glens Falls.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
