
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —I spent some time Monday morning looking at the Omnibus production on the Constitution of the U.S.
Since I never am able to see these TV productions when they actually are on the screen, I have had to go to the Fund for the Republic offices to judge the various programs. Though it is hard to find time to do this, I enjoy them and I think I probably am learning to appreciate what good TV programs can mean to the public.
I lunched with Bernard M. Baruch, which was a great pleasure for me since I had not seen him for a long time. I found him looking well indeed and as full of interests as ever.
In the evening, I went out to Levittown, Long Island, for a program co-sponsored by the adult education group and the League of Women Voters. I dined with Mrs. Marcia Weinstein and had a very pleasant time.
The League of Women Voters has been encouraging discussions on civil rights and freedoms, and I think its plan to have a series of group discussions following this opening talk and to use the booklets which the Carrie Chapman Catt Fund published would be of great value to any community.
Levittown is a community of young families and it is encouraging to find them taking such an active interest in the important questions of the day.
I was up early Tuesday morning to make aan 8:15 plane to Washington where my friend, Mrs. James Helm, kindly met me. We had time to pay a short call on my old friend, Mrs. Adolph Miller, and then I went to the 20th biennial convention of the Amalgamated Union.
The hall was crowded with delegates—all of them taking an active part and a keen interest in every point which was brought up.
I arrived just as a representative of Boy'sBoys' Town, outside of Rome, Italy, was asking for the continued support of the union. Last year Mrs. Joseph Lash and I visited this project for orphan boys and were impressed by what was being accomplished. I am quite sure that the union's funds will be well invested in helping this school to make better citizens out of these Italian youngsters.
I was glad to see Mrs. Sidney Hillman and I am always impressed by Jacob Potofsky. He is a fine leader of a fine group of people.
I got home in plenty of time to enjoy having Mr. and Mrs. Pare Lorentz for an hour's chat at my apartment.
In the evening, I went up to speak for the PTA of Public School 93 in the Bronx. I spent an hour first, however, with Mr. and Mrs. J.J. Singh and had the great pleasure of seeing Ambassador and Mrs. Sherman Cooper and a number of officials here from India.
Ambassador Cooper has represented us so well in India that it is a pleasure to talk to him and get a picture of the changes that have come about in the last few years, so I am hoping to have another chance to see him before long.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
