
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I would like to draw your attention to two articles on a very controversial question in the South, one written by Governor LeRoy Collins of Florida and the other by Branch Rickey, vice-chairman of the President's Committee on Government Employment Policy.
I felt that the Governor employed a great many words to tell us what many Southerners have told us, namely, that we must move slowly and patiently on racial integration. But he did acknowledge that whatever the people of the United States as a whole believed in would be eventually accepted.
Mr. Rickey realizes that the colored people already have shown a great deal of patience, but I think they are showing remarkable restraint and we should be proud of them.
Those of us living in the North should hasten to set our house in order so that we will be able to speak with more authority on the subject of racial desegregation than we have been able to do in the past.
An inequity would be corrected at only a slight cost to the Federal government by a bill, HR 1157, introduced into Congress by Representative Eugene J. Keogh and in which Representative 
                     Wilber D. Mills, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, is interested.
In 1941, before this country entered World War II, an appeal was made to doctors in this country to enlist on the side of Great Britain, and many of our doctors responded.
These doctors served with our allies through World War II and were given GI Bill of Rights benefits. But they did not receive Social Security benefits for the time they served in World War II.
Americans who served with U.S. forces during the war received these Social Security benefits, although their length of service was often much shorter.
It is felt that this failure to give these doctors the same benefits was an oversight that our government might well correct now in the interest of justice.
I was appalled the other day to hear that the New York City Board of Education has passed a resolution to merge the School of Performing Arts with the High School of Commerce.
An advisory committee composed of distinguished professionals feels that this change is a real catastrophe and will do real harm to the program in the High School of Performing Arts.
I know that this committee has planned to bring its protest before the Mayor and the Board of Education, but I think the general public should take cognizance of the committee's feeling, for an advisory commission does a great deal for the school in which it is interested but is apt to lose interest if its advice is considered unimportant.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
