
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Wednesday
                  —I am keenly interested in a reprint of an article by Charles E. Wilson entitled, "Progress Sharing Can Mean Industrial Peace."
The last sentences read: "As an engineer, I believe that collective bargaining, based on scientific principles, combined with an honest regard for the welfare of our fellow workmen, can minimize if not eliminate industrial strife. I believe that scientific principles can bring us to a peaceful and productive solution of the industry-labor problems of collective bargaining."
Mr. Wilson points out in the very beginning that collective bargaining without some kind of good-willgoodwill philosophy behind it may lead nowhere in keeping the industrial peace. I think many of us have felt for a long time that strikes should always be the very last resort. In an industrial dispute when you arrive at the point where a strike is necessary you are paralleling the point that nations reach when they decide on war. If we can find a way to obviate strikes it may well serve as a basis for obviating wars, since industrial difficulties are not so very different from the difficulties that face nations.
I hope that General Motors is going to find its new formula will be so successful that other industries will follow suit and work out similar ones to suit their particular industries.
I left Hyde Park early this morning to go to Scarsdale to speak for the Parent-Teachers Association of the Edgemont School. From there, after lunch, I go directly to New York City.
Wednesday evening I am speaking at the opening of a conference held under the auspices of the Asia Institute. This organization has acquired a new building in New York where its collections from the East can be properly displayed and where its classes can be held. It is the one place where the staff is devoting its full time to the study of the languages, the history, the literature and the art of these areas of the world.
The Asia Institute has appealed only to a limited group in the past. There has not been a complete understanding of the need for us to know better the peoples in the Far East.
Communications are so rapid now, however, that they have drawn these countries closer to us. Many of our young men and women will perhaps work for a number of years throughout Asia. It is essential that they learn the languages, that they know as much as possible about the countries in which they are going to live.
It will serve our interests if the Asia Institute is able to do its work well and it will serve the interests of a peaceful world. So I hope this year's conference will have a large attendence. Above all, I hope that the interest in the New York Asia Institute will increase so that it may do more efficient work.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.) REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
