
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —Perhaps the most important recent development has been the President's talks with Britain's Prime Minister Macmillan. It is quite true that if all the strength of the West were pooled and used well and economically, there would be no question of where the preponderance of world strength lay. Unless a great change comes about in our association with our Western allies, however, there will really be no pooling of strength.
Unless we share our knowledge, each one of us will be trying to balance our own strength against the Soviet Union and we will all duplicate each other'sothers' work. This will be an impossible situation, for it is only by working together that we can fully develop our powers of defense, protect the West and present to the Soviets a challenge sufficient to make them pause in any plans they may have of aggression.
The Soviets keep assuring us that they do not want a war. But the attitude of their representative, Mr. Gromyko, in the U. N.U.N. debate has made a great many people wonder how you prevent a war when you insist on saying that your adversaries are doing things which they are not doing. Turkey has no desire to swallow Syria, and the U. S.U.S. is pledged to preserve the boundaries of any nation in the Near East from aggression. Syria is a weak nation in spite of all the aid she has received from the Soviet Union, and it is not astonishing that she wants an inquiry in the U. N.U.N. and every assurance of protection from attack. Yet I can think of ways of giving her this assurance which would be more effective than the speeches of the Soviet Union in the U. N.U.N. during the past few days.
Japan's Foreign Minister, Michiro Fujiyama, who arrived recently to head his delegation in the U. N.U.N., has as his objective an attempt to stop any further nuclear bomb tests. The people of Japan have suffered keenly from the tests we have conducted in the Pacific, and for that reason they have a strong interest in seeing these tests come to an end. This is one of the things the Soviet Union has at times been willing to discuss, and it is one of the things we could profitably give consideration to, it seems to me. And so one hopes that this may be a step forward in the disarmament negotiations.
One wonders what has brought about the rather sudden resignation of Attorney General Herbert Brownell at a time when it would seem the Attorney General was right in the middle of a policy-making period. The situation as regards,regards the whole enforcement of desegregation in the South is in such a delicate state that it seems a pity to change hands just at this time, unless there is some decision to change policy. In that case, we shall all be anxious to know what the new policy is going to be.
(COPYRIGHT, 1957, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
