
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —This past Monday I flew to Boston to keep a lecture engagement at Brandeis University in nearby Waltham, and I had the good fortune to have my grandson, Bill Roosevelt, along with me. Since I had to take two rolls of film on United Nations work with me, it was nice to have a young man carry my belongings and, besides to have such a young companion is a rather rare experience when one gets to be my age!
Bill took me out to Brandeis and stayed for dinner. Then he went back to his studies at Harvard. He will be leaving soon to join his mother in Palm Beach for the holidays.
These trips to Brandeis are great fun. We always have a pleasant time at dinner, and later at my lecture the audience is such a responsive one.
The hall was filled with students, and the films I showed them dealt with U.N. work in Afghanistan and about the World Health Organization. I spoke about world health and technical assistance. I have only one more lecture, in January, in this series, and I shall cover the remaining specialized U.N. agencies and show more film, if possible.
It certainly is difficult to present as much as one would like in a limited period, but I was encouraged when a young professor told me that his course in international organization would be much better attended because of the glimpses I had been able to give the young people of U.N. work.
On Tuesday I had planned to drive up to Bard College after a luncheon of the Mayor's U.N. Committee but, because of the heavy rain, I decided to take a train both up and back. It limited my time to one-and-a-half hours with the youngsters at Bard, where I read Dickens' Christmas Carol for them. My husband was expert at cutting this story while reading it and still was able to make it interesting, and I made a gallant effort to do the same.
I have enjoyed these visits to Bard, but we have yet to ascertain if they have had any practical value in stimulating broader reading habits among the students.
My hospitality committee work on the Mayor's U.N. Committee has, I think, turned out to be very useful. But it has not been very stimulating to the members of the committee because it has been found that only a comparatively small amount of personal entertainment and contact was really wanted by the U.N. A number of other organizations take care of the regular secretariat needs. I hope in time we will become more useful in this particular way, but in the meantime we are filling needs for the regular missions and the consulates in New York.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
