
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —Difficulties seem to be multiplying among the Arab leaders themselves in the Near East.
Now Jordan is accusing Egypt of a plot against Jordanian officials and has asked for the recall of Egypt's military attache. Egypt immediately retaliated by asking that the Jordanian envoy to Cairo be recalled. These rifts among the Near Eastern nations certainly will reduce the probability of Egypt's dictator wielding complete power over all the Arab nations.
This may make the possibility greater of bringing individual Arab nations to consultation and settlement of certain important questions, eventually bringing about a more peaceful coexistence of all nations in the Near East.
Our neighbor, Canada, in turning from the Liberal party to the Conservatives, seems to have undergone a major political change. This apparently was brought about largely by the maritime provinces, which felt their interests had been neglected.
What may have played a part in the voter'svoters' reaction to the Canadian situation is the impulse that seems to arise in almost every nation after one party has been in power for a long time.
Personally, I will be very happy if it turns out that Lester B. Pearson, Secretary for External Affairs, is re-electedreelected to office. He has been extremely valuable in his contacts with foreign nations, and if he is re-electedreelected, I imagine these contacts will continue.
A greater percentage of voters balloted in this election than in previous ones. This is an encouraging sign in any country, and I hope that throughout the world there will be a continued growth of interest in the right to vote.
After a brief time in my office Tuesday morning, I took a plane for Youngstown, Ohio, made a speech there in the evening and returned later that night to New York. Although I arrived home somewhat late, I was glad to be able to make the round trip in one day.
I took Dr. J.N.C.M. Kappeyne and Miss N.H. Graamans of Holland and Clark Eichelberger up to Hyde Park, N.Y., Wednesday morning so that our Dutch friends could visit the Memorial Library and spend a short time in the country before returning to Europe.
Dr. Kappeyne and Miss Graamans have been in this country for the World Federation of United Nations Associations. I think such visits always are valuable, for they draw closer the ties of the U.N. itself and our American association to the World Federation.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
