
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Friday
                  —A violent thunderstorm broke early Thursday morning, but it cleared off by 11 o'clock, when we went up to the postoffice in Hyde Park village for the ceremony in honor of my husband. There seemed to be a few people who had stopped by from other places, but largely the crowd was a neighborhood crowd. Postmaster General Hannegan and Third Assistant Postmaster General 
                     Lawlor
                  , who made all the arrangements, agreed to wait a few minutes while one of the movie camera men, arriving late, got his camera set up and in working order. Then our local postmaster, Arthur Smith, opened the ceremonies. Thomas Kilmer, president of the Roosevelt Home Club, spoke, as did our Democratic supervisor, Elmer Van Wagner.
A number of sheets of the new stamps, in folders, were handed to Mr. Hannegan. After his speech he presented me with one, and then with a second one for the library. Then we went into the postoffice, where I signed a number of sheets, including one for ex-Postmaster General Frank Walker. Our postmaster finally succeeded in getting Mr. Hannegan away from the crowd, which was collecting autographs on a grand scale, and took him in to see the postoffice. This is built of field stone, as every building was which my husband had anything to do with in this region. He loved the native stone out of our woods and fields, and I must say it does make a very appropriate building for this area. Our little postoffice also has some delightful murals painted by Olin Dows of Rhinebeck, N. Y.
As I was getting into my car, a young soldier who was evidently convalescing from a foot injury asked me to sign one of the covers. Afterward, we went down to the big house, having augmented our party by two more guests, Maury Maverick and Patrick W. McDonough. Our visit was brief, because we had promised the children that we would go to the lunch which was being served in the basement of the Town Hall by the Catholic women for the benefit of their church.
Needless to say, the children were far more interested in what they were going to have for lunch than they were in a sight-seeingsightseeing visit. We finally got back to the Town Hall, where everybody's appetite was fully satisfied. I do think it is a remarkable thing how well the church women of every group manage these affairs, for in times like these, when points are scarce, they are not easy to plan.
Postmaster General and Mrs. Hannegan left by 2 o'clock to visit friends in the vicinity, and I took Miss Byrne and Mr. Fitzpatrick to a train which left a little later in the afternoon.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
