
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —Early in the New Year I am scheduled, with Mr. Clark Eichelberger, to make some trips for the American Association for the U. N.U.N. The first one will be in Florida on January 10, when we will spend the day in Miami attending afternoon and evening meetings of the local association.
At this time it is important for all of us to show appreciation of the fact that the President has insisted on use of the U. N.U.N. in international affairs as a basic U. S.U.S. policy. For this reason we must know more about what is going on and why we take certain stands. I still find in our country a woeful lack of understanding of the work of the U. N.U.N. specialized agencies, which goes on every day in the year. There is even less understanding of the technical assistance program and the far-reaching effects of the work of the Children's Fund.
On Thursday I went to a special showing at the CBS studios of Danny Kaye's film made on his last trip. I was particularly impressed by the scenes with the polio children and later in the leper colony. I think his work to publicize UNICEF should bring about a far greater understanding of this agency, and should stimulate our young people and their parents to greater activity and support of this work.
All of us are anxious to see the Suez question settled without war. To this end, it is vital for us to support the AAUN and, through our own organization, to support the U. N.U.N. in its efforts to bring about a peaceful solution of the whole Near Eastern problem. We must understand the background of the present situation, what happens now, and the possibilities for the future. Only if we do, can we hope to come to a successful settlement of the many thorny questions.
Probably the first step is to insist that there be negotiations of a peaceful nature between Israel and the Arab states. Israel has always been willing to sit down and negotiate. The Arab states feel that if they refuse Israel recognition, then they might hope to wipe out this new small country. I think this should come to an end, but it will come to an end only if we speak decisively and firmly through the U. N. That can only come about if we are informed through our own associations and work, through them and other groups with which we may be affiliated, to make an informed public opinion.
(COPYRIGHT, 1956, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
