
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N.Y.HYDE PARK
                  —There is a movement, I understand, to call an international meeting of all religions as one method of promoting world peace through a better understanding of peoples' spiritual beliefs.
So many world religions have much in common, but they know little about each other and how they could work together for peace in the world. So an effort is being made to contact the World Council of Churches, the Vatican, and representatives of Hinduism, Buddhism, Shintoism, Islam and Judaism in the hope that in 1960 there can be a world convocation of religious leaders.
One of the conference's objectives would be a pledge that America, and I suppose, other nations set aside a percentage of the billions now used for arms for the welfare of people throughout the world as soon as a genuine disarmament agreement can be reached.
This pledge, I thought, had already been given by the United States, but if not, I am sure the people of the country would gladly see it given if it would advance real understanding.
Now to switch to something that is entirely new to me, though it may be an old story to my readers.
There is an organization that is working to eliminate unprotected railroad grade crossings in our country as a whole. It tells me that these unprotected crossings are accounting for more than 60 percent of all train and vehicle accidents in spite of the fact that as a rule they exist on rural or other lightly traveled roads.
Many of us for years have wished that all unprotected railroad crossings could be eliminated and that this ought not be very difficult to do, but we did not know there was any organization really making a concerted effort.
This letter, from Mrs. Robert L. Forsberg, chairman of the National Railroad Grade Crossing Protection Campaign of Zeta Iota Chapter, Delta Theta Tau Sorority, asks me to alert people all over the country so that this campaign will bring results more quickly than it has in the past.
There is one other suggestion on still another subject that I think I should pass on to you. It is a communication from Mrs. Ruth E. Masarky of Hillcrest, Spring Valley, N.Y.
She believes that if more schools would get together the parents, teachers, doctors and other members of the community who deal with the children and have panel discussions, much could be done to eliminate delinquency and improve our schools.
Mrs. Masarky feels that the meetings are essential and that close contacts between all the members of the community brings understanding. I think she has proved her point in her own community, and I hope that people in other communities will communicate with her. It might be of great help in attacking the causes of some of our difficulties.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
