
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —Last week I went on the Tex and Jinx program at one o'clock. I always enjoy being on this program, but the hour is a most inconvenient one if you happen to have anyone lunching with you. I had to dash back and have a very late lunch at my apartment with a guest.
Recently I heard a song called "Believe In Stevenson," written by Ed Scott and Anne Croswell. We hope very much that people all over the country will find this song easy to sing and that it will become one of the things people like to hum. There has never been a campaign that did not try to find a song which would catch and hold people's attention. Yet I don't really think that a song or even a slogan can ever be said to have elected anyone to office. But let's sing, anyway!
On my return from Europe I found a letter from a Californian who had been attending the Republican national convention. He seemed to be impressed by the wonderful hospitality extended by California's Governor Goodwin J. Knight, who, I gather, gave a party for 8,000 guests during the convention. He proceeds to tell me in words which he copies from the San Francisco Chronicle that 45 chefs presided at ten buffet tables and 200 waiters circulated with trays of pink and white, well-chilled champagne. He then goes on in detail to describe the amounts of food and other necessities provided at this party. He doesn't seem happy about it, because he found an item in the same paper on the same day describing a very sad situation for a destitute man and his family.
My California citizen should not be surprised at these contrasts. Fortunately they exist more rarely in this country than in many other countries in the world. But I think he was probably handing me an argument to bolster one I have made in the past; namely, that there is more concern in the Democratic party for the individuals who represent the little people and who sometimes are the destitute men, than there is in the Republican party, which has never lost its feeling that prosperity at the top will trickle down to the people at the bottom.
No one will deny that this has been to some extent true. Employment is very high at present in this country and conditions are good for many. But very little has been done in this Republican Administration to change conditions for those whose employment does not bring them in an adequate income, or who cannot meet the sudden catastrophiescatastrophes of illness or the minimum hopes for recreation and better education. The small farmer, the small business manbusinessman are not happy and they need help.
(COPYRIGHT, 1956, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
