
                  
                     LOS ANGELES, Monday
                  —Last Friday evening I had the pleasure of going to Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Myer's house for dinner with some of the people who had worked very hard on my son James' campaign.
Bright and early Saturday morning, my daughter, Anna, and her husband, Dr. James Halsted, came for me. We went first to their house on the Veteran's Administration grounds where I had a chance to see my grandson, Johnny. Then we went out to the little ranch high up in the hills above Malibu. To this little retreat Dr. Halsted and my daughter drive every week endweekend. I think the beautiful view, looking out to the sea so far below, and the warm sunshine must make these autumn days a rest and a joy after a busy week of work.
We gathered walnuts from their four walnut trees during part of the afternoon and walked down to a site on their property which would be perfect for another house if they ever want a neighbor. At present, they rent the area to a gentleman who keeps his bees there and as rent they get 70 pounds of delicious sage honey a year. This honey is put up in jars with a little piece of the honeycomb in the jar and the strained honey is poured in around it.
After a very good dinner, which Anna cooked, I drove down with some friends of theirs who had come to dinner. I had a glimpse of Mrs. Hershey Martin's little beach house right on the ocean and then their family drove me to Mrs. Alphonso Bell's where I am spending two nights.
Mrs. Bell is my son Elliott's mother-in-law, and she has always been very sweet to me. I am delighted to see her in her own home which is high up in Bel-Air with a beautiful view of the city below. She says she is so much alone here now that she thinks of selling her home, but I feel sure it would be hard for her to finally decide to separate herself from memories that go back to the days when she and her husband chose the site and built the house.
On Sunday I attended service at a little church in James' district and then we had lunch with Mrs. Bell.
In the afternoon I met a great many more of the people who helped in James' campaign. Now it is Monday and I must return to my lecturing. So I will be on my way to Ventura, where I speak Monday night.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. 
