
                  
                     NEW ORLEANS.
                  —Last Friday morning I viewed at the United Nations a kinescope of a birthday party held at the U.N. in October in which I had taken a small part. It was really quite delightful. I found it most instructive and hope I can have the film shown in some of our schools at Hyde Park.
On the way to the projection room I passed an interesting exhibit in the Secretariat Building. This is done by Chile and, quite appropriately, it is the first one, for this year the Chilean representative, Jose Maza, is President of the General Assembly.
The exhibit features a map of Chile, books on Chile, illustrations of all its products, and I only wish I had had more time to study it carefully.
The plan is to have each nation put in an exhibit of this kind and I think it will be a very interesting feature for all visitors. It will give one a reason for coming back to the U.N. and the Secretariat Building in particular to see the new exhibits as they are put on.
As I came out of the visitors' entrance I was struck by the number of schoolchildren going through the building. There did not seem to be many adults, however. They seem to be more susceptible to the weather which may have kept them at home!
I have just received some photographs of my youngest great-grandchild, a little girl, the first girl in my granddaughter Mrs. Seagraves' family. She looks darling—a little more comfortable when held by her mother, but nevertheless she seems to enjoy life even when her older brother holds her in what looks like a most uncomfortable position.
It is strange to think of the day when my granddaughter was the size of this small girl. If one lives long enough it is exciting to see the various developments in the younger generation.
On Friday afternoon I visited the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and was delighted to see many changes and improvements that have been made since my last visit some time ago.
I managed also on Friday afternoon to pay a visit to the hospital where Henry Morgenthau III has had an operation for appendicitis, and a perforated appendix at that, which is an unpleasant thing to have to undergo.
In the evening Mr. and Mrs. Lash and Jonathan came to dinner and the grownups went to see "The Chalk Garden." This play is well acted, and Gladys Cooper and Siobhan McKenna are wonderful in their roles. It is an excellent character study but becomes an interesting situation with the garden thrown in as an added entertainment. Neither flowers nor people will grow in soil not suited to their needs!
Saturday morning Mr. and Mrs. Lash motored me to Hyde Park and we spent the day working on Christmas packages and eating a picnic lunch. Then we returned to New York in time for me to attend the Mayor's dinner for George Meany and Walter Reuther and for the Lashes to attend the Philharmonic concert.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
