
                  
                     SARASOTA, Fla., Monday
                  —I was fortunate in finding the most wonderful weather in Miami. It was warm but not too warm. The sky was blue and the sun brilliant.
While there I attended a meeting of the American Association for the United Nations. The state chairman, Col. Dunbaugh, had invited those who had either formed chapters or were in the process of forming them to come and meet with me. There is a chapter already in St. Petersburg and there will shortly be one in West Palm Beach, in Sarasota and in Fort Lauderdale.
The Greater Miami chapter is growing in strength. Up to this time the executive director here has made her house the office and done a good part of the work of the chapter but they are hoping soon to have a paid secretary and separate office which I think will mean they will be able to do more work than they have in the past. They have set up a workshop on the U.N. in connection with the university which ought to help a great many people to understand what the U.N. is and does.
The executive director, Mrs. Berman, has put together a handbook telling the history of the American Association and then the history of the Greater Miami U.N. Association. This booklet sells for a dollar and a half and I think it would be of value to any organization which wanted a pattern to work by in setting up new chapters and organizing new states. They have already advertised through their Unigram publication (which is two mimeographed sheets) the fact that there will be a concerted membership and finance campaign, run both by the national office and all the state and chapter groups. April is the month for this campaign and great preparations are being made so that it will be a real success.
After the AAUN meeting we had a very pleasant luncheon at which short speeches were made and in the afternoon I went for a few minutes to a ladiesladies' meeting held in connection with the United Jewish Appeal campaign. Then I was free to go with my old friend, Mrs. June Rhodes Gordon, and we took Miss Maureen Corr, my secretary, for a drive to see Miami.
I was impressed by the number of new hotels, apartments and motels which have sprung up everywhere for miles along the coast. Where do all the people come from? There must be far more people than I have ever dreamed of who can afford to spend one or two months away from home during the winter and that is a sign of prosperity and well–being for which we must rejoice. They tell me it is not as good as usual this season but it seems to me quite crowded.
We had an early, quiet dinner in the Di Lido Hotel where we are staying and then I attended an evening meeting to which I had come to speak. It was a crowded meeting of workers for the UJA campaign which is already well started in this area.
Friday I attended the UJA ladies luncheon and made a speech. I had an early dinner with Mr. and Mrs. Gordon and took a plane for Sarasota to stay with my uncle, Mr. David Gray.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
