
                  
                     ATHENS, Ohio.—Ohio University in Athens, Ohio, has a very fine campus. The trees were one of the things which impressed me. There were some really old and beautiful elms.
I was told that the university was the earliest university established in that part of the country. Their assembly which met at 9:40 A.M.a.m. and at which I spoke was chaired by one of the students. President Baker explained to me that they liked to have the students responsible for visiting people at this type of meeting. We had breakfast with President and Mrs. Baker, and I had not realized till then that President Baker had been the U.S. representative on the Economic and Social Council at its meeting in Geneva last summer. I think he thoroughly enjoyed the experience and his association with the members from other countries and those on our own delegation.
I had an opportunity to go into the Student Union Building, which is a very attractive structure where I met a number of the faculty as well as the students after speaking at the memorial auditorium which seats 2,800 people and which was filled. Some Democratic women from ParkersburyParkersburg, West Virginia, brought me over a lovely basket of roses and got up at 4 A.M.a.m. to attend the lecture.
At Indianapolis I spoke for the United Jewish Appeal. Mr. Ira Hirschmann was the other speaker and I found him a most moving and interesting person to listen to. He speaks out of his own broad experience about the work which he did during World War II and one cannot help being moved by his deep sincerity.
Later at Louisville I spent the night with Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham and spoke in the evening for the American Baptist Church.
I want to pass on to you a delightful verse which I came across in a column written by a minister the other day:
It is quite true that all of us have much of the earth about us and rather encouraging to know that we have a bit of the stars, too, so that we may look upward and feel that we are drawn towards the heights.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
