
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —When you are in Europe, as I was on my return from Morocco, you realize the tremendous importance of the recent signing of two treaties by six European nations—France, Italy, West Germany, Belgium, Holland and Luxembourg.
It was a historic move and, although 20 years may be needed to accomplish the expected results, may have a great effect upon the future of that continent's non-Communist areas.
One treaty created "Euratom," an arrangement by which the six countries will pool their resources for the development of atomic energy for peacetime uses.
The other treaty created a vast custom-free European market. This will not spring up overnight, but eventually it should mean a great deal to the 160 million consumers of the six countries.
We in the United States know what an advantage the elimination of interstate trade barriers has been to us. So this possibility in Europe can be looked upon not only as an economic measure of great importance but as a means of eliminating some of the ancient, historical fears and hatreds.
I hope that March 25, 1957 will be remembered as a day when greater stability came to Western Europe, for this stability, of course, affects the peace of the world and gives greater strength to the leadership of Western Europe in the United Nations.
An editorial I saw in the European edition of the New York Herald Tribune said that the President soon will have to start using his influence and prestige on behalf of his own program if he expects to get any of it through Congress. It specifically mentioned the budget, which the President's own Secretary of the Treasury has tried to cut and which Mr. Eisenhower himself said was essential to accomplishing his governmental aims.
If we fail again to do something about our public school situation, we will have gravely hurt the children of this generation and our future as a nation.
Foreign aid should be increased, not cut, even if we find it wiser to give it through the U.N. It is our most effective weapon against Communism, in most cases far more effective than military aid.
Just a few words about my visit to Paris:
It is always a nice, familiar feeling to be back in the Crillon Hotel there. I found flowers in my room on my arrival and outside the blossoms were out.
One should be young and walk the streets of Paris in the spring with a sweetheart to get the city's full flavor, but the day I was there a chill of winter was still in the air, it seemed to me. Perhaps it was just the chill of age!
I did a little shopping in Paris—what woman goes there and doesn't do a little? I saw some places I always like to revisit, met a few friends and flew home.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
