
                  
                     NEW YORK, Sunday
                  —For one hour of pure joy I can recommend a visit to New York's RKO Palace Theater, where Danny Kaye is performing. How one man does it for the length of time he stays on the stage I do not know! His wife says he loves it.
Of course, I realize that I have always enjoyed Danny Kaye and that I think his performance in the Hans Christian Andersen story is simply marvelous, so perhaps I am prejudiced. I am not easily amused and charmed, however, but I was both when I attended his Palace performance a few evenings ago. There are, of course, many other attractions, but we were rather late in arriving so I can only speak with personal knowledge of my pleasure and joy in Danny Kaye's part. The gentlemen with me had a wonderful time, so I was not alone in my admiration.
On Saturday I attended a lunch of the Delta Kappa Gamma Society. This is the second year in which this society, of which I am honorary member, has had a meeting in New York City, and it certainly seemed to me a great success. Everyone seemed to enjoy it. There were present teachers from schools and colleges in this area, and there were also individual representatives of the profession from other countries and from many other parts of the U.S.
Later on Saturday afternoon I went to a unique birthday party given for Dr. Alice B. Keliher by her many, many friends. She had reached her 50th birthday.
I do not know how many years she has been at New York University, but everything she has done was portrayed in a long series of pictures made by the children of her school. The youngsters also made the programs.
Her New York University family greeted her with warmth and appreciation, and I think she was made particularly happy by having her brother and some of her cousins from Massachusetts present along with her multitude of friends.
The rain poured outside but Trude Lash and I, who went together, agreed that it was remarkable to come in from such gloomy streets and find such warmth and cheer.
The Dagenham Girl Pipers from Dagenham, England, came to see me after I returned to my hotel and presented me with the greetings of the Mayor of Dagenham. They like New York City, but I am sure they are looking forward to their trip to Miami. They say their audiences have been kind here. Come to think of it, though, such a group of "kilted lassies" would be received everywhere with pleasure.
I'm sure everyone is deeply concerned over the news that Pope Pius XII, who had been reported to have a light attack of the flu, has developed more serious symptoms. Everyone will pray, I hope, for his speedy recovery.
On Sunday Miss Thompson and I left for Washington where we are going to be until Wednesday evening.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
