
                  
                     HYDE PARK.—The State of California is certainly being active on behalf of Adlai Stevenson. One reason probably is because California is Vice-President Nixon's home state. It seems to me that more people in California than in some of our other states seem anxious for a change to a Democratic administration in Washington.
Gov. Edmund G. Brown of California has indicated that he leans toward Sen. John F. Kennedy, though he is still uncommitted, and I imagine the activity on the part of groups for Mr. Stevenson makes the Governor think twice about coming out definitely for one candidate over any other one.
It is obvious to me that more and more people are joining the bandwagon for Stevenson, but I am told that at the convention the bandwagon probably will roll for Kennedy and that it will be very difficult for any of the "hoi polloi" who have joined the Stevenson forces even to get into the convention and make a noise about their choice. Perhaps it is well, then, to make all the noise they can now!
I have before me an amusing draft notice sent by one of the California committees to Mr. Stevenson. In it he is notified to appear at the convention to show cause "why he should not be drafted as commander-in-chief of the U.S. armed forces for four years of service."
I seem to receive in the mail every day a new idea about what could be done to emphasize the feeling of the people that lies back of this draft movement.
One of these suggestions strikes me as particularly good. It is that all over the country groups working for Stevenson plan a dinner on the 10th of July. The hours, of course, would vary so that they would coincide with the dinner that is being held in Los Angeles that night for the delegates and various other important people in the Democratic party and at which Mr. Stevenson will be one of the speakers.
Then, the suggestion goes on, at each dinner throughout the country a message should be drafted urging the delegates to nominate Adlai E. Stevenson for President, and that these messages should be delivered to the chairman of the dinner in Los Angeles with the request that they be read to the assembled delegates.
I would only add for myself that I would like to see the messages contain a plea to Mr. Kennedy that he throw his support to Mr. Stevenson and run as the Vice-Presidential candidate so that the ticket would be as strong a one as the Democrats could put in the field.
(Copyright, 1960, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
