
                  EN ROUTE TO BERLIN.
                  —I had the great pleasure the other afternoon of a short visit with my friend, Bernard Baruch, who came to see me in New York before I left on this trip to the Soviet Union. As usual, he gave me some wise advice, saying: "Remember that you are going to see people and they are just like other people."
Long ago I asked Mr. Baruch for advice on how to approach decisions when I was really doubtful as to the right thing to do. I have never forgotten what he said to me: "Follow the dictates of your heart and you will not go far wrong."
He knew, I think, that all of us can be intellectually pulled in many directions but that, in the final analysis, it is safest to live by one's heart.
I bore these suggestions away with me as I left my own country.
I love to travel, but when the time comes to return, I always arrange for as rapid a journey as possible. The urge to be back in my own home, with my own interests and my own family and friends, makes me very impatient of any delay on the return trip.
I was given a preview the other evening of a movie to be released in October. It is called "Time Limit," is a Heath Production and presents Richard Widmark, Richard Basehart and a number of other excellent actors. The movie was taken from a play by Henry Denker and Ralph Berkey.
I think I can say that you will be tense and moved by this picture, from the first scene to the last. It is well acted and well written, but even more important, it deals with a subject which faces a man very often, not only in the military service—though there is a specially poignant twist to that side of it in this movie—but in many other situations.
I took a number of people with me to this preview, and I think everyone felt that this was not an evening of mere entertainment but one that had real value. I believe the movie will stir deeply its audiences.
The other day there came to me a copy of a book which most of us are going to enjoy having in our libraries. It is called "Best Quotes of `54, `55 and `56." Its author, Jim Simpson, has collected the best quotations of our time in this book, which is published by the Thomas Y. Crowell Company.
I find this book useful to have for constant reference, and I hope other people will derive as much pleasure from it as I have.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
