
                  
                     NEW YORK.—Our newspapers tell us briefly about the integration
problem in such a place as McComb, Miss., where violence has
broken out, but there are a great many small daily problems that
come up in the lives of our fellow citizens that most of us never
hear about. In fact, just the other day I received a letter that
touches on one of the ever-present and extremely varied Negro problems
of the South. So, I thought it might serve some useful purpose
to give excerpts from this letter which comes from Tarboro, N.C. It
reads, in part:
"This is the problem. For the past 60 years or more several
families have been using a strip of land parallel and adjacent to the
railroad, and to the property of the families, as an outlet to the
main street. Long Manufacturing Company, Inc., having been unsuccessful
in buying the property of the families is proceeding to put a
fence around the strip of land and forcing the families to use an
improvised alley at the rear of this plant.
"An appeal to the Governor of North Carolina was referred to
the Mayor of Tarboro. Both the Mayor and the Town Manager, however,
said the town officials have no legal right to interfere. As far as
they are concerned, it is a fight between the manufacturer and the
families. The idea behind this fence is to force the families to
sell."
I suppose this property belongs to the Long Manufacturing Co.,
and it could have built its fence 60 years ago and the families would
have had no redress. Now, I think these families feel, perhaps not
unnaturally, that if they were white this pressure to make them sell
would not be applied.
They may be wrong, of course, but it is little things like this
that build up little by little a sense of daily unfairness. In some
parts of the country I know that if a road is used long enough as an
open road it cannot be closed. In order to preserve such rights a
property owner will often close such a road at regular intervals.
Therefore, if this law holds good in North Carolina the company may be
declared neglectful in failing to close off this property periodically.
Sixty years seems a long time for a strip to have been used as an
access to a street and then be closed off summarily.
I have been reading in the newspapers that Mr. Adlai Stevenson
is weighing in his mind his running for the United States Senate
against Sen. Everett Dirksen. If he decides to do this it would,
of course, mean his resignation as Ambassador and head of the U. S.U.S.
delegation to the United Nations.
If he decides to leave the U.S. delegation, there is no
question in my mind that he will be greatly missed by many of the
delegates, particularly of the Asian and African countries, who have
experienced the warmth of his friendship. With many of the other
countries, of course, he was already a long-time friend of the heads
of the delegations, for there are few people in the world who are
active in the political life of their countries who have not known
and worked with Mr. Stevenson. That is one of reasons why his
heading our mission to the U.N. seemed of such great benefit to our
country.
One can, of course, say that if he were elected to the Senate
instead of Mr. Dirksen the Senate would have gained considerably,
but in stating that opinion I realize I am open to the accusation of
being partisan!
We do not have too many people who grace the positions they
occupy and whom we feel we can trust intellectually and morally to
stand well among their colleagues. But Mr. Stevenson is certainly
one.
Just the other day I was given a book called "Conscience in
Politics, Adlai E. Stevenson in the 1950s" by Stuart JerryGerry Brown, and
on the inside flap there is a paragraph that gives us the reason why
we have confidence that no matter what Adlai Stevenson decides to do
he will do it to benefit his country. Here is the paragraph:
"In American Presidential politics it is seldom that a vanquished
partisan candidate has provided the outspoken leadership for
his country that a popular and unpartisan victor could not or did not
furnish. Yet the history of the U.S. from 1952 to 1960 leads the
author of this provocative work to conclude that Adlai E. Stevenson,
twice defeated by Dwight D. Eisenhower, did just that—and made a
definable and lasting impact on public policy."
(Copyright, 1961, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
