
                  
                     LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIALOS ANGELES, Tuesday
                  —On Sunday evening I attended a dinner given by the Williamsburg Settlement, Inc. It was their Gold Medal Award dinner, and I was presented with the award for this year.
I am always deeply touched to receive such an award. It is a great honor, but one must not lose sight of the fact that they are really not honoring any individual, they are simply striving to emphasize to people their knowledge and beliefs which they consider essential in the development of a better world.
After the dinner I rushed back to the Park-Sheraton Hotel, changed rapidly, picked up my bag, and went on my way to the airport and flew to Los Angeles. I wanted to see my three young families and my friends in Los Angeles, but after eight weeks of work on the Human Rights Commission, I felt tired and would have liked to stay two days peacefully in the country. However, to see my eldest grandson married was a tremendous pull, and now that I am here, and the day has arrived, I am very glad I didn't let a fit of laziness overcome me.
I arrived here on Monday and have been very busy, even though the activities have been purely personal. My grandson, Curtis, my daughter's elder son, is very young to be married. He has chosen a very sweet looking girl. I am told she is a very capable and mature young lady, so perhaps we older people should not try to keep the young ones from assuming their responsibilities. All we must do is to wish them luck and pray for God's protection, and hope the world will treat them kindly. The wedding is to be very small and the reception will be at the home of the bride's parents. At seven o'clock tonight I shall board a plane once more, this time eastward bound.
Wednesday in Washington will be a full day, but here again I shall have an opportunity to spend a night with old friends, Mr. and Mrs. Adolph C. Miller.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
