
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —I was interested to hear in Louisville that the Democratic trend seemed very visible in the local elections this year. Towns went Democratic that had not done so in years; and if this is any indication of what might happen next year, the Democrats can feel very hopeful. Even Indiana shows this Democratic trend, and in Philadelphia Mr. Dilworth was re-electedreelected Mayor by a great majority. While no one can claim that this is more than a trend, still I think it is a very encouraging one for those of us who believe that it is important for the country to return to Democratic leadership.
Early Thursday morning after a night flight I returned to my own home to face much mail on my desk, but glad as always to be home.
This week has been set aside as Children's Book Week, and I am told there are more large book fairs in major cities scattered throughout the country than ever before. This is interesting because it shows that parents and children are becoming conscious of the rich and varied literature available for children and want to see what is suitable for each child in the family. There are many different tastes in every young family. If the parents are wise and allow the children to begin choosing books which become a part of their own library in their own rooms, or in their joint playrooms, it is interesting to see how the interests of one child communicate themselves to the others. Gradually the children have a variety of interests, for books tend to develop the rounded personality which is what we want for all our children.
I would like to mention also a booklet sent me the other day by Thomas J. Watson called "The Story of New York—An Island Fantasy." The cover is the incredible New York skyline, and the whole booklet is of course made up of pictures covering every phase of interest. It is published by Thomas J. Watson, who dedicated it to Miss Dorothy Shaver "in appreciation for what she has done for all of us in N.Y. through the annual Lord and Taylor Award Luncheon. Those present at the latest luncheon were given a panorama of N.Y.C. which increased our appreciation of our city and extended and broadened our vision of its challenging possibilities."
In publishing this booklet Mr. Watson has done a service to all of us living in New York. I am one of the realtivelyrelatively few residents who are native New Yorkers, and so I love this city and am grateful to all who make it a better city in which to live. I shall keep this book in my library as a reminder of how much we have to be grateful for.
(COPYRIGHT, 1955, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
