
                  
                     MEEKER, COLO.MEEKER, Colo.
                  —The flight coming out to Denver on Saturday last was very smooth and pleasant. The drive from Denver to my son's ranch which is near Meeker is a most-beautiful one and we had a wonderful sunset. But our plane was late and one bag had to be searched for, and these two unforeseen delays made us a full hour late in leaving Denver.
We stopped on the way to Meeker so that the hungry members of our party could buy hamburgers and odds and ends to keep them going, and it was nearly nine o'clock before we sat down for supper at the ranch. We all decided that the five-and-a-half-hour drive, beautiful as it was, is a very long one and fairly exhausting.
Around Denver I noticed that the country still looks as though the drought or the effects of drought are not quite over. The crops did not look to me as good as one might expect in these parts where there is really sufficient rain. Nevertheless, conditions look much better than last year, which may be partly due to what government help has been able to bring into this area. Once up here (7,000 feet), however, where there are rivers and where everyone irrigates, the fields of hay look wonderful and the cattle look as though the pasture had been good. They are fat and healthy.
Early this morning I walked over to see the state fish hatchery, which is not far from my son's ranch house. Walking along the stream it was amusing to see the little trout swimming against the current, and when I got down to the place where they were loading trout into tanks to take them over to Rifle Creek, which is about a three-hour drive away, I was suprisedsurprised to see how big they were. I am sure anyone would have liked them for a morning meal.
I am not a fisherman, however, though from watching people fish for trout I have decided that it must be far more interesting than the deep-sea fishing which I used to watch my husband enjoy.
I realize, of course, that there is much skill and muscle that goes into the catching of certain of the big-game fish, which my husband's parties used to go after. But it always seemed to me so difficult and to require as much skill as trout fishing does.
The need to acquire these skills always frightened me, and I suppose I never tried long enough to have them seem attainable as far as I was concerned. So I contented myself with knitting and watching these enviously who could to the things I could not do.
I am hoping that while I am here some of the household will be trout-fishing. Eating them is something even unskilled people can do.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
