
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —I have had the good fortune to see the Broadway play, "Teahouse of the August Moon".." This play pokes gentle but nevertheless pointed fun at our occupation forces and our efforts at making primitive people understand democracy overnight. The lesson, however, is not too obvious and the fun is prevalent the whole way through the play.
David Wayne does a wonderful job as Sakini, and Captain Fisby, done by John Forsythe, is extremely good. It is the only play I have seen as yet this winter which gives one a real evening of entertainment. You are not overburdened with problems, though you know that if you want to think about the problem of how we treat primitive races, it is there to be thought about.
However, you still can be amused and enjoy every moment of the play. From my point of view "Lady Astor",," the goat, was perhaps one of the most delightful characters. How they teach her to "lick her chops" in such an enticing manner, I really cannot understand. You are quite sure, however, that the brandy was excellent which she had just consumed!
This is one of the plays I would see again with great joy because every character is well played and you enjoy every detail, but seats are so hard to get that I imagine I shall not be seeing it again. I hope, and am sure, that it will run a long time and give many people great pleasure.
Now that we are approaching the Christmas holiday season, I have been asked again to say a word about highway safety. Every year at this time Mr. L.S. Harris, executive director of the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators, points out the need for special care through the Christmas and New Year period.
One of the dangers which leads to motor accidents is that last good night drink, and so again we are asked to back the idea that instead of being liquor this last one "for the road" shall be coffee, good strong black coffee. It has been established through studies made at Cornell University that coffee is a valuable drink following the consumption of alcoholic beverages.
A good many safety organizations and other groups are joining Mr. Harris in his efforts to bring about fewer accidents during this season and among these groups, not only the AAA but the National Tavern Owners Association has agreed to take part and they will serve a last drink of hot coffee to anyone who is going to drive, which is a real public service.
It would seem that any holiday host or hostess has an obligation to help this particular safety drive and serve coffee at the end of a party.
Last year the National Safety Council reported that accidents caused 962 lives in the Christmas and New Year's period. Let us try to bring this record down.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
