
                  
                     NEW YORK.—We have fallen into the habit of saying, when things go wrong for this country in any part of the world, that the Communists are responsible. No matter what the situation, they are the ones who are making it unpleasant for us.
I now have a letter on the Japanese crisis which I feel I must quote in part for my readers and include the names of the women's organizations in Japan that signed it. I am quite sure they are not Communist groups.
The letter was written before the Japanese ratification of the United States-Japanese security treaty and before the cancellation of the President's visit to Tokyo.
Groups in Japan already are reported making a fight to repudiate the treaty. They are, of course, referred to as "leftists," and some of them undoubtedly are. But there are others among them who are unhappy because they fear war, and I do not think we want a treaty that is opposed by these groups—our best friends.
Here is the letter:
"We have the deep doubt about the treaty as it has the possibility to let us involve in the war which will be against our constitution. We are sorry to say, but our present government did not try to hear the opposing opinion and, without enough explanation, suddenly they brought in the verdict by only their party. This is not the first time they took this method. This is really the violence with number.
"For us, Japanese, experienced the hardship under the military dictatorship for a long time, to allow this violent conduct or not is the critical problem of the democracy in Japan. This is no more the Pro. and the Unti. for the Treaty. This fear towards the existence of the democracy, made us run, not only the mothers, but the young sons and the daughters and other common citizens for the resistance towards the Kishi Cabinet.
"This is our real feeling and we can say with confidence that this resistance is not the one agitated by the communism, or other forces. We would like you to understand the fact that the official information does not give you the whole sides of the problem, which is our mistake and our misfortune.
"Above reasons, we are deeply worrying about the plot of our government to make use of the President's friendly visit for their factional interest and involve him in our internal political commotion. We always believe your kind friendship towards our country, and the President's visit is also planned for your goodwill....
"Not only the Social parties and unions, but many university professors, Christians also warned and requested the government to take the responsibility for the commotion at the airport, we are the more convinced that it would be the most desirable that your President would postpone the plan of the visit for a while. Then we can welcome him in far better condition.
"It would be most happy if you and your friends would understand the strong fear, we, many women who loved and will love both countries, have in our minds."
The signers are: Nagoya Young Women's Christian Association (members); Nagoya Professional and Business Women's Club (members); Aichi Women's Voter's Federation; Shin-ju-no Kai; Aichi Branch of Kurashi-no-kai; Izumi Club (members); Hamon Club (members).
Also, the Daily-life Friends' Club, sponsored by the Chubu Nippon Press; Japan Women's Christian Temperance Union; Nagoya Branch of Japan Nurses' Association; Aichi Children Protection Club; Aichi Mothers' Federaion; Aichi Women's Democratic Club; Inter-club of Japanese and Chinese Women.
(Copyright, 1960, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
