
                  
                     NORMAN, Okla.
                  —I visited the Morrisania City Hospital in the Bronx in New York on Thursday afternoon and took part in the ceremonies rededicating the library.
Except for the teaching hospitals, few of our hospitals have libraries, but it has always been felt that they are of great use to the doctors both in the hospital and in the neighborhood.
A doctor needs to keep abreast of all the latest discoveries and of the discussions going on in medical circles or he will fail to give his patients the benefit of new knowledge. For this reason a library is something to be proud of, and I did not wonder that my old friend, Dr. J. Lewis Amster, had wanted me to see how successfully they were building this library which he had been instrumental in starting.
Leaving Morrisania Hospital, I went to the New York School of Social Work where Mrs. Boughton Cobb, an alumna of the school, was presenting her special collection of books to be included in a memorial set up in memory of Dorothy Hutchinson.
Some of these books were on exhibition, and in this first presentation, 300 volumes of autobiographical recollections of childhood have been presented to the school. Mrs. Cobb is the author of a monograph or study entitled, "The Ecology of Imagination in Childhood: the Role of Intuition in the Natural Science of Perception." The description of the collection says:
"The present group of volumes is the documentary evidence upon which the study of imagination in childhood, stimulated by Mrs. Cobb's casework training at the school, was based. The study has included many years of research and direct work with children, against a background of study of the child in nature, the child in culture, and the child in society—all the history of the social attitudes toward the child, with especial orientation toward the latency period in childhood."
The collection is a most interesting one which I think many people, especially students, will enjoy. There will be a far greater number of volumes added later by Mrs. Cobb.
The Joint Handicapped Council of New York asks that all of us who are interested in seeing the Keogh bill, HR 1154, passed should write our Congressmen and the head of the House Ways and Means Committee.
This bill will relieve handicapped people of certain taxes which make rehabilitation more difficult for them, such as expenses incurred in getting to and from work when they cannot use ordinary transportation and the expenses incurred for the purchase and care of orthopedic and prosthetic devices.
There are many other reasons why special consideration in certain areas should be allowed these handicapped people and I hope the bill will pass.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
