
                  
                     CASTINE, Me..—In Boston on Wednesday morning I had a chance to meet a young, aspiring politician, Mr. Tom Sullivan, who is running for the Boston City Council. Mr. Sullivan seems to be a very nice young man, and it is encouraging to see young people of his calibre going into local politics in our big cities.
Soon after I was introduced to a family of five—a man and his wife and their three children—whom the Church World Service has brought to the United States from Holland. They came from Indonesia originally.
It is interesting to see how well the Church World Service looks after these people, or, rather, how well the people they find in various communities help to look after them. It must be hard to become acclimatized to a new country and at first to accept work for which you are not trained. But these people seemed to be happy to be here and hopeful for their future.
A few minutes after 11 o'clock Wednesday morning we were out in Cambridge again and Prof. Henry Kissinger, who is in charge of international studies, was kind enough to take us over to the museum where I had long wanted to see the glass flowers. This collection is called the Ware Collection, because it was given to Harvard University by Mrs. Elizabeth C. Ware and her daughter, Mary Lee Ware, as a memorial to Dr. Charles Eliot Ware of the Class of 1834.
Harvard has received many gifts through the years, but these beautiful flowers, created in glass by the artists-naturalists, Leopold and Rudolph Blaschka, father and son, are among the most beautiful and unique gifts which people come from all over the world to see. These models are used very largely for teaching. Students can, in a single day, study representatives of the entire plant kingdom in natural size and color and in three dimensions.
My grandson, Franklin D. Roosevelt III, took my granddaughter Nina Roosevelt, and Miss Maureen Corr to see one of the Harvard buildings afterward, since they wanted to compare it with what they had seen in Oxford. They decided that, on the whole, our students were more comfortable.
Then we all proceeded to The Window Shop, on Brattle Street, which I remembered visiting many years ago and where I had had such a good meal that I thought even our two gentlemen, for Henry Morgenthau III joined us there, would enjoy luncheon.
This is the twentieth year since the Elsa Brandstrom Ulich Assistance Fund has been established. She was president of The Window Shop from 1942 until 1948. The sources of the fund are the profits from the shop and the contributions from friends. Since 1948 $12,000 has been given to meet hardship situations and $46,000 for scholarship awards, along with a smaller amount loaned to employees and students.
A total of 428 students have been helped by The Window Shop either through part-time employment or through scholarship grants from the Ulich Fund. Out of the 311 who have been employed part-time, usually in summer, about a third were from Central Europe and the rest came from places like India, Greece, Iraq, Israel and China.
From the Ulich Fund 267 Scholarship awards have been made to 117 students, and it is interesting to look at the chart to see the areas from which the greater number has come. Germany and Poland have the largest portion, followed by Austria and Hungary; then Yugoslavia and the Near East and Mediterranean countries. A rather small number came from South American and North Europe and France and Switzerland, and an even smaller number from Asia and the U.S.A.
(Copyright, 1959, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
