
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —Friday was an unusually busy day with outside things! So much of my time up here is spent going through old papers and letters, trying to equitably divide and distribute the numerous things that I stored over here when I cleared the big house of my mother-in-law's and my husband's personal belongings, that it is rather rare to spend a whole day jaunting.
I began by going over at eleven o'clock in the morning to meet a Mr. Booth who is writing a book on the farm interests and the farm backgrounds of various Ppresidents of the United States. We had a little chat in the room in the library where all new gifts and acquisitions are being sorted and listed and distributed. The library is rather swamped at present because they have so many papers and various kinds of mementoes which I have sent them, as well as what they have received from Washington. When a request came in for a particular speech made at the time of my husband's death, they had to acknowledge that they had not yet been able to get things sorted so that they could put their hands on the thing they wanted at the moment it was wanted. All librarians will be sympathetic, because I think from the Library of Congress down, this is one of the troubles in every library where the flow of incoming material is constant.
Then I visited three invalids. There seems to have been a real epidemic of accidents and illness among the wives of some of our older employees and it was lunch time before I knew it!
At three-fifteen I went to Mrs. Saulpaugh's home on the Albany Post Road, some miles beyond Red Hook. She had a joint meeting of a number of the garden clubs and I told them what I could of the United Nations set-upsetup and the Human Rights Commission. My young niece, Amy Roosevelt, was with me and we got back just in time for an early dinner after which she took the train for Detroit, Michigan, and I went to speak at the graduation exercises in Poughkeepsie at the Benjamin Franklin School. This is one of the older grade schools and it is plain that the war has kept them from doing much in the way of repairs, but I heard promises that things would be done in the course of the next few months. Parents and teachers all seemed very proud of the sixteen young graduates—eight girls and eight boys. Three of the boys were apparently too shy to come to these formal exercises and receive their diplomas, but I thought it was a very pleasant occasion and that the others all seemed happy, and well started towards their high school years.
This is the chronicle of a busy day for me in the country!
