
                  
                     LOS ANGELES, Tuesday
                  —I have been amused by some of the recent headlines here which would make it appear that Foreign Minister Molotov is more or less trying to insult Secretary of State Marshall and that Secretary Marshall is trying to insult Mr. Molotov. As a matter of fact, I cannot imagine that that is the object of either gentleman. China is the point at issue, and I should think they could decide, without very much heat, on whether China's affairs should be discussed at the Moscow conference.
It seems logical that China would prefer not to have her problems touched upon when her Government is not represented. That is the point of view which Secretary Marshall has upheld—and which is probably wise, since he has had long experience with the Chinese Government and the Chinese situation. I rather doubt that Mr. Molotov would feel that this decision was made with any desire to rebuff his suggestion for informal talks. He would recognize that it is a question of what is the most advisable thing to do in a situation which sooner or later must be taken up by the Council of Foreign Ministers but which can well wait until China is represented.
The other evening, when I went to San Diego to speak, I learned about a very interesting undertaking in that town. They have an organization called the House of Pacific Relations. Peoples of all the countries represented in the community are united in this organization. The city provides cottages in Balboa Park. Here the groups can hold meetings, and they have pleasant social gatherings which further mutual understanding.
A public-spirited citizen, Frank Druggan, started this association some eleven years ago and has given it a great deal of his time. Now he is working with unstinting effort to make it helpful to the efforts of the United Nations. San Diego has a great variety of nationalities represented, including Swedish, Norwegian, Russian, French and Greek citizens. All of them look with favor on the undertakings which have been carried out through the House of Pacific Relations.
This morning we are leaving for Phoenix, Arizona. I look forward to spending two days there with my daughter and her husband and to seeing their youngest child, little Johnny, who I'm sure has grown considerably since I last saw him.
John and Sara are popular names in our family. My son Jimmy and his wife have named their very vigorous and hefty baby Michael Anthony, after Rommie's grandfather, so he will not compete with any other member of the family in the matter of names. But my youngest son John has named his dainty and very sweet little girl baby Sara Delano, so she will have to add "second" to her name since she has a cousin, a good many years older, who bears the same name. Both of them were named after their great-grandmother. The newest little one, however, is called Sally, so perhaps there will never be any confusion.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1947, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
