
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —After dinner last Friday evening I took a late plane for Boston where my old friends, Mr. and Mrs. LaRue Brown, were kind enough to say I could spend two nights with them.
On Saturday morning I went out to Brandeis University bright and early to give the baccalaureate address. This was the first opportunity I had had to see the three new chapels. At Brandeis they have the good fortune to have Protestant, Catholic and Jewish places of worship, built in a semicircle, which seems like a very effective way for young people to see what it means to respect one another's religion.
I will tell you more in a later column about the various other things that took place during the commencement festivities.
Last week I received a copy of the "Swiss Review of World Affairs," which is a monthly publication of the Neue Burcher BeitungNeue Zurcher Zeitung. Sometime ago it was suggested to the Neue Burcher BeitungNeue Zurcher Zeitung, which is conceded to be one of the best in Europe, that they should publish and send to people abroad who are interested in world affairs the best articles published in their paper during each month. This has been done, and already the "Swiss Review" is very widely read.
I was glad to be introduced to this publication and I mention it here so that other people who would like to receive it can write to P. O.P.O. Box 660, Zurich 1, Switzerland, or to Credit Suisse New York Agency, 25 Pine Street, New York 5, N.Y.
Another thing that came to my attention last week was a little story from Warm Springs, Ga., about the "Little White House." This is the cottage in which my husband lived when in Warm Springs. It is now a museum and was visited last week by its 700,000th visitor.
This person was Mrs. Ben Goler of Atlanta, Ga. She and her husband, who is with the Lockheed plant at Marietta, Ga., were making their first trip to Warm Springs with thetheir daughter, Jacqueline, aged 7. Mrs. Goler was given a few souvenirs to commemorate her honor in being the 700,000th visitor and she seemed excited and pleased over the whole episode.
She remembered having seen my husband twice and heard him speak in person once. Like so many others, I am sure, on going through this little cottage where he spent so many happy hours, she felt she was very close to my husband.
This memorial in Warm Springs is becoming increasingly popular. In fact, 13,423 visitors made the trek to this small cottage in May, and ever since April there has been an almost continuous procession of schoolchildren. These visits are still going on and they come from as far away as Texas and Missouri.
This is a particularly nice time of year to visit Georgia because the woods and the wild flowers everywhere add to the beauty of the mountain scenery.
(Copyright, 1955, United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
