
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday
                  —The International Union for Child Welfare has just held a conference at Zagreb. This was a world congress of the Union and was attended by some 30 nations who sent 450 delegates.
The Union is particularly interested in having it brought home to people everywhere that the child cannot be considered apart from the family. It was resolved that no child should be removed from its family if it is possible to bring the whole family situation to the point where disturbed children can be treated within their family circle. The delegates from areas of the world where war had devastated their country and where broken homes were caused by war, were particularly interested to see that children should not be removed from their natural environment of the family.
This puts the International Union for Child Welfare into the whole picture of world conditions. The Union is as interested in political conditions which bring about war as they are in improving economic conditions to make it possible for children to grow up in a proper environment.
One phase of the International Union's work began after the regional conference in Bombay, India, December, 1952. The New York Fund for Children made it possible to engage a field consultant, Mr. V.M. Kulkarni, to work in India and other Asian countries. His report at Zagreb made such a deep impression that the International Union is now seeking funds to continue the work for two more years.
The Minister of Health for India, the Hon. Amrit Kaur, is deeply interested in this project, and she has just arrived in the United States. I believe she will be here for some time, and I hope many people will have an opportunity to meet her. I first met Amrit Kaur at a meeting of the World Health Organization, in Geneva, where I admired her very greatly and I am looking forward hopefully to seeing her while she is here.
I should say one more thing. This is the second year that World Children's Day is being observed and the newly elected President of the U.N. General Assembly, Dr. Eelco Van Kleffens, has given his approval to this work. I went on the air with Tex and Jinx for a talk on World Children's Day, Monday, October 4.
I left for Washington Tuesday morning and spoke there at a meeting on Rural Education. Ten years ago this meeting was held in the White House and I am happy to express, even briefly, my continued interest. I will tell you later of certain other things which occurred during my visit to Washington.
I returned to New York Wednesday afternoon.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
