
                  
                     NEW YORK. 
                        Tuesday
                     
                  —When I left New York City Monday morning on a quick trip to Milwaukee I was shocked to hear that Mr. Khrushchev had broken up the summit conference. This was something he had worked on over a long period of time.
The one hope to do away with the fears that led to spying on the part of the great countries was to come to some understanding on international internal inspection under the control of the United Nations. One would think that Mr. Khrushchev would realize that this objective would be worth a little more temperance on his part.
Now, the continuance and intensification of the cold war and the consequences of a possible break, which would mean noncommunication between the Soviets and ourselves, is a very dangerous situation. There must be no one in our country who will not watch with great anxiety the developments of the next few days.
Before I left New York I was glad to be able to announce that there would be on sale very shortly all the recorded speeches of my husband. Such a collection has never been made before, and on hearing some of those already recorded I could not help thinking that they still had value in the world of today.
Historically, this will be an interesting collection of six recordings sold in one volume, and I think a great many people in the U.S. will find them both a pleasure and a valuable document.
Now let me mention the monumental effort a lady has set herself to accomplish. She describes herself as "a housewife with two small children working on a borrowed typewriter." She lives in Lockport, N.Y., and has written to the President, to the Governors of all the states, and to leading figures in the newspaper and broadcasting world as well as to dignitaries of all church groups. She is asking them to support and do what they can to have a National Day on which the country would raise money to give to Dr. Tom Dooley.
She says she was inspired to this effort, which certainly for a private citizen is almost impossible to accomplish, by watching Dr. Dooley on television prior to his operation for cancer when he told the story of his own ordeal and of his work in Laos. He was trying out of his own experience to relieve the fear of others over something that he himself was going through, and at the same time was telling of his lifework.
My correspondent would like everyone on June 21, 1960, to stop at 2 p.m. for just a short moment, say a prayer and give some tangible aid to the work that Dr. Dooley has undertaken. She ends her letter by saying: "With his unceasing devotion to his work Dr. Tom Dooley has shown the world the qualities of mercy which are inherent in the American people."
(Copyright, 1960, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
