
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Monday
                  —It is interesting to me to learn how many more Hyde Park visitors nowadays than in the past visit the church my husband attended. The other day one of the ladies who volunteered to be at the church one day a month told me that she had escorted 84 people during the day and that they came from a number of different countries. It is evident that people are learning not just to visit my husband's grave, the house and library, but to visit everything else of interest in and around the village. We are becoming better sightseers in the United States and we really want to see everything there is of interest in a neighborhood.
Sunday afternoon I drove some friends over to one of my kind neighbors who has agreed to train my new young puppy. Two young people in Toledo, Ohio, sent him to me. The day he arrived I was in New York City so I did not see him, but everyone told me in what good condition he seemed to be and how friendly he was.
When I went to see him yesterday I took Tamas with me, and I was amused to find that when the puppy wanted to play with Tamas, Tamas seemed quite intimidated. Already the little fellow's ears stand up very straight and he is as bright and playful as possible, and very affectionate and friendly. I fell in love with him at once, but stuck to my decision that somebody else should train him.
In going and coming we explored back roads because I thought the main roads would be very crowded. I discovered all over again the real charm there is in driving along dirt roads and finding houses you have never seen before, and views you didn't know you would come upon as you reach the top of a hill or as you round a corner. We came through a bit of wooded country and then an avenue of locusts which perfumed the air. I was really sorry when we got back on the main roads but glad to find that my fears of crowds were unfounded.
I have been reading some of the letters in the last two volumes of the Theodore Roosevelt Letters, which were sent to me the other day. I think that whole correspondence, as it has been edited so far, is very well done and makes most interesting reading.
Curiously enough, I have just received a letter from Mr. Gib Sandefer, who is the general chairman of the Teddy Roosevelt Rough Riders Reunion. He tells me that on August 1, 2 and 3 in Las Vegas, New Mexico, there will be held a big reunion of the surviving 100 members of the Rough Riders who fought with Theodore Roosevelt in Cuba. It will be a memorable occasion and I hope all of them will enjoy reminiscing about the past.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
