
                  
                     HYDE PARK
                  —I thought I would be a little weary yesterday after my cross-country trip and therefore that the day would move along rather haltingly. Instead, things went with unusual rapidity. I had to be at the U.N. by 10 A.M.a.m. to make a recording for Human Rights Day. From there I went to my office, then came back to my apartment to try to sign some of the accumulated mail. Afterward I went to lunch with the Women's Club of the Columbia University College of Pharmacy at the New York Athletic Club, and then spoke at the College of Pharmacy. They were a delightful group of women, and the students who attended the meeting, both men and women, made the question and answer period very lively. I talked as usual about the U.N., and found a great deal of interest.
I returned again to my apartment to do some more work on the mail, and then had two friends, Miss Rose Schneiderman and Mrs. Francis Hirst, in to tea. They were joined by Dr. M. Das, a judge of the Superior Court in India, who has been here for a short time. He has lectured on Indian culture, and came with the idea of remaining in California to teach. But he found there was not enough interest in his particular subjects, so that courses which he had hoped to give were abandoned. He was a little sad at the apparent lack of interest in the study of Sanskrit and Indian culture generally, but hoped this will be gradually improved.
Finally I had the pleasure of a visit from Mr. Irving Solomon and a number of other people interested in the American Association for the U.N., and we sat around and discussed some of our difficulties and some of our successes.
To end this day, which I had thought might be a quiet one, I went to a delightful dinner party with Mr. and Mrs. Robert Magidoff. Mrs. Magidoff is one of the warmest and most delightful of people. Mr. Magidoff, of course, is always a source of interest for he knows so much about Russia, and who is not interested in Russia today? Mrs. Magidoff said she was having all of her family to dine, and it certainly was a large family she managed to have. It was also such a delightful one that I found myself enjoying every minute of the evening.
I finally returned home, finished the mail, and went to bed to catch up on lost sleep which I never really seemed to miss! Changes of hours as you go back and forth across the country, however, do seem to make a little difference, and for a day you wonder just how to readjust.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
