
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday
                  —Last Monday afternoon I came down to Washington, and I have been having a busy time. Mr. and Mrs. Adolph Miller, our very old friends, were kind enough to take me in, but I am afraid I have been a rather unsatisfactory guest! My time has been so much taken up that I have had little time to spend with my kind hosts. But in a city where one's hosts are apt to be busy, too, it makes a guest perhaps less of a burden if she happens to have a good many things to do.
I had the pleasure of going out on both Tuesday and Wednesday to the forums which I used to attend at Walter Reed Hospital and at Forest Glen, the Army convalescent hospital. The hour for the forums at Walter Reed has been changed, and they are now held at one o'clock after the men have had dinner. At Forest Glen I was asked to have luncheon with them, which I was happy to be able to do. In both places I found that the questions came as fast and furious as ever. I think there is no lack of interest in our problems of peace for the future.
On Wednesday evening I spoke at the forum at Howard University. I managed during the day to stop in for a minute at the Recorder of Deeds office to see the bas-relief of my husband done by Miss Selma Burke. Then I went to the Treasury Department to see the poster which is to be used in this Eighth Victory Loan campaign. I imagine it will be hard for people to realize that this drive is as necessary as any of the previous loans during the war. Yet, just as we have to keep men policing countries which are now subjugated, so we have to provide the money for post-war activities. The reconversion period in some ways will be more expensive than the war; and if we do not meet these expenses now, it will cost more in the future.
This last sacrifice should certainly be made with all the generosity which we can muster, and everyone should want his share in the last patriotic gesture which can be tied to the war.
I have had time while here to have some pleasant hours of a purely social nature. I have seen many of my old friends, and since I come rarely to Washington these days, this has been a great pleasure.
Today I go to Bryn Mawr College to speak at their assembly at noon. Then I will visit the Christian Settlement House in Philadelphia, and speak at a dinner for the National Citizens Political Action Committee. After that I take a late train home, for I want to see Fala wagging his tail with joy when I come in.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
