
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —When I got off the train on Saturday it was wonderful to find my grandson, Bill Roosevelt from Harvard with a friend, and my granddaughter, Chandler from Vassar, waiting for me. The sky was gray, but little patches of blue were showing through and by the time I had changed into high boots and was ready to plod through the mud, two happy and excited little dogs were ready to go for a walk.
I told "Mr. Duffy" how on Friday evening in Toledo, Ohio, I met his first little master and mistress, who had given him to me. Our pictures were taken together, and when the two youngsters asked me questions about Duffy I told them how we had struggled through his puppyhood together, during which he had chewed up two rugs and various other things. These included a slipper, which he brought down to the living room one night, belonging to Begum Liaquat Ali Khan, who was staying with us at the time. Duffy had not completely destroyed it, but it certainly was damaged. I couldn't offer to replace it, however, because it quite evidently came from Pakistan and I did not know where to get one like it in New York.
My two young friends seemed to understand quite well what the trials were when one had to bring up puppies, but they were glad to hear that Duffy now is grown up and as well-behaved as any older dog.
I was in Cleveland on Friday for a few tightly-scheduled hours. I held a press conference upon my arrival, and almost immediately did two tape recordings. Then I was whisked off to meet the board members of the Council of Jewish Women, for whom I was to speak. We lunched in their building, which is a beehive of activity. Afterwards I was taken nearby to what they call the Golden Club Lounge. This is open every day for the old people, who have a program of activities and amusements which the old people themselves plan. The walls are decorated with pictures painted by one of the members, who took up painting at the age of 75.
At two o'clock we went out on the stage of a packed auditorium. I spoke for 50 minutes and answered questions for another 25, after which I was driven back to the station in time to catch a four o'clock train for Toledo. The engine of the train broke down and we spent an hour getting it repaired, so that my time in Toledo was very hurried. We kept the audience waiting half an hour while we had dinner and I changed my clothes in record time. It was a good audience, with many questions which kept us there until nearly 11 o'clock. Then I caught the 11:35 train for Poughkeepsie.
This afternoon in New York City I shall attend a meeting to discuss the world Parliament of Religions. The U.N. is taking a great interest in this, and it should certainly be of great value to all of us in this country.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
