
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —We reached Louisville on Wednesday noon in time to have a very pleasant small luncheon at the hotel with the President of Louisville University, Dr. Philip G. Davidson, and his wife. We learned in Louisville that the university has made itself responsible for establishing an international center, and they practically fulfill the work that might be done by a number of organizations in the international field.
At the head of the school's international work is Dr. Brodschi, who gives a course on the United Nations. This course includes a three-day trip to New York to see the United Nations at work.
After some discussion among university authorities and civic leaders, it was decided that it would be a good thing to have an American Association for the United Nations chairman for the state and perhaps a state committee, whose duty it would be to decide where in the state more work is needed apart from the work which is encouraging, because one should not duplicate good work which is already being done. Also the new setup will strengthen the national organization by having representatives in Louisville, which would assure us of cooperation there for any work that goes on in the international field.
It was very pleasant while in Louisville to see Mr. and Mrs. HarryBarry Bingham. They are both such fine people and such attractive people, and I am always happy to have a chance to see them.
The White House conference on education was, of course, a subject for discussion in Louisville, as it will be from now on for people interested in education everywhere.
The conference this year should be a very important one. I would think that it will have to come to grips with the question of whether Federal aid is needed by the states to give adequate education to the children of the country, and what form the Federal aid should take. In many areas of the country the overcrowding in the schools is really a point of crisis.
In my home area of Hyde Park in Dutchess County, New York where my husband urged the Board of Education to build new schools at a time when it could get grants from the Federal government, many people in the area felt that we were overbuilding and that the schools would be almost empty for years to come. Now one additional new school has already been built in our area, and most of the schools are running on two shifts!
If this is indicative of conditions in other parts of the country we are certainly nearing the point where we will not be giving our children a good education and our teachers will be so overworked that they will not be able to teach on the level that is really required of them.
The White House conference, therefore, from the domestic point of view is a very important one and the people of the country as a whole will be watching to see what solutions will be found to the problems facing us.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
