
                  
                     NEW YORK, Sunday
                  —On Thursday afternoon I spoke to a group of young people organized by James Rosenau, a graduate of Bard College, and from there went to the tea which Mrs. David Levy and I gave at her apartment for the benefit of Helen Gahagan Douglas' campaign for the U.S. Senatorial nomination in California.
I feel that when a woman has made a good record in the Congress for intelligence and devotion to the interests of the public, and has done credit to all women by her public service, she should receive the support of women beyond the limits of her own state. Mrs. Douglas is fearless, and no one questions her integrity. At times I worry about her, because I think she feels so intensely about some of the principles she upholds that she will wear herself out. However, I suppose we should be grateful when we find people who care enough to fight for the things they believe in, especially in the present day when living up to the ideals of democracy is so important to us all.
Myrna Loy, who also feels the necessity for participation in work on the international level and is doing much for UNESCO, joined Helen Douglas as an honor guest. Fortunately for us, the weather cleared and a goodly number of guests were able to join us.
In the evening Mrs. Ellen Woodward, who is in New York City for the meetings of the Economic and Social Council, joined Miss Thompson and myself for dinner, but immediately afterward I had to speak for the Rinah group in the interests of the Wiltwyck School. Many plans are going forward at present that concern the school. Mayor O'Dwyer has named the week of March 12 as "Wiltwyck Week," and we hope to put on a fund-raising campaign which will really help us to do the things that should be done at the school. With our new director, Dr. Ernst Papanek, we hope to develop the experimental side of the school and have records that will be of basic value in the care of young delinquents throughout the country. If you are asked to help in the campaign during that week, I hope you will remember that you are helping young people who may be your neighbors—unhappy little boys caught in the net of a society that does not always give them a life in which they can develop normally.
Friday I took the train to Providence, where I spoke in the afternoon to some students in Brown University. I then went to my hostess, for whose organization, The World Affairs Council of Rhode Island, I spoke in the evening on the subject of the United Nations. Saturday morning I went to Westbrook, Conn., to stay with my friend, Esther Lape. In the evening she drove me to New London, where I spoke for the Trumbull Alumni Association of the University of Connecticut. Today I am back in New York in time to have some friends lunch with me before the afternoon television program.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
