
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —Yugoslavia certainly seems to be in a very difficult position. Trying to persuade the USSR that it is not in agreement with what has been said by the Cominform must be quite a formidable achievement, since no one imagines that the Cominform makes any statements without having carefully cleared with Moscow.
Of course, if countries around Yugoslavia, such as Albania, decide to impose economic sanctions, it can be made very difficult for the Yugoslavs. One wishes very much that the USSR could be brought to see the light and to give those countries on her borders which have genuine Communist governments sufficient latitude to let them feel they are acting as free and independent people.
There is no question but what the Yugoslavs have a great admiration for Soviet Communism. They feel that, from the economic standpoint, the Russians have the only solution, both industrially and agriculturally. They are not opposed to Soviet political theories, and are even willing to follow along. They have an efficient secret police, and all they ask is that the secret police be their own and that they be allowed to enjoy their own brand of nationalism.
I happen to think that their desires could be achieved quite as well under democracy as under Communism, but they will have to find this out as time goes on. Meanwhile, there is no question but what the USSR should be willing to join in economic cooperation not only with those on her borders, but with all the states of Europe. Every country in Europe needs to work with all the other countries, and there must be a flow of goods in both directions.
The Berlin situation seems to give rise to actual anxiety because it is one where a serious incident might follow if people lose their heads. Fortunately, we have in General Clay a very calm, far-seeingfarseeing, firm and patient man. One hopes that nothing will happen before the USSR comes to its senses, for it would be sad to force the other allies to serious protest.
It is interesting to see that Henry Wallace has at last come out with a statement that, while he might lose 100,000 votes if the Communist party should run a candidate of their own, he would gain another 3,000,000. He actually adds that if the Communists want to help the third-party ticket, they would run a ticket of their own!
It is the first statement which begins to show that a glimmer of light is dawning on Mr. Wallace. He adds, of course, that he would never indulge in any red-baiting. But no one would ask him to say more than the truth as he discovers it from time to time. This is a very good beginning.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
