
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Friday
                  —Here it is the day after Christmas and certainly no one has ever been remembered more kindly than I. I cannot possibly write to all those who sent me Christmas cards, but through my column I want to tell them how very much I appreciate their thoughts of me and the many kind things that have been said in memory of my husband. I received many cards from all over the world, some asking for help which is far beyond my power to give, but all of them expressing gratitude both to my country, to my husband and to me for past helpfulness.
There was one card I particularly enjoyed because it was a photograph of a Scottie puppy, also called Mr. Duffy and written to my Mr. Duffy. I am very grateful to the two youngsters who sent me my Mr. Duffy because no one could have a more amusing and delightful puppy. At first I thought Tamas would always resent him, but now they have become good friends, probably because they have been alone so much. I am sorry to say they still run away when I walk them in the woods together, but they come home after a few hours so I am not left to worry for too long a time.
I think Mr. Duffy is beginning to feel he is part of the family, too. He has soon learned Tamas' habits, both bad and good. He asks for tidbits at the table and I am too weak to refuse. But now he will lie down and keep me company, and the two little dogs together curled up on my tiger rug in front of the fireplace are a very heartwarming sight.
We had a lovely Christmas Day, with nine children and 13 adults at Christmas dinner. The midnight service Christmas Eve had to be held in the chapel as our church in Hyde Park is undergoing repairs. While I do like the church better for all services, still the chapel is a nice, intimate place, and it was fun wishing everyone a Merry Christmas as we came out. There were some boys in uniform present, which always saddens me because I wish there did not have to be so many in our armed services. But I was glad that these particular boys could be home for the Christmas service.
My only disappointment has been that in spite of having put in calls to the West Coast three days ago and giving the hours when I wanted to reach my children, the circuits were busy all day and I was not able to talk to them in Pasadena or Los Angeles, or for that matter to any friends anywhere, but perhaps I shall be able to reach them today.
There is much to be thankful for during the past year and I am grateful, above everything, for the number of times I have been able to see my children who live far away and the children and friends who are near at hand. May the coming year be as kind to all of us as we in our hearts wish for them tonight.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
