
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday
                  —I went up to Hyde Park Tuesday afternoon and though there are still places in the woods where the snow is deep, for the most part it has been washed away by the rain. The roads are muddy except for the big thoroughfares.
In the evening I was the speaker at the meeting of the Dutchess County Council of Churches held in the First Baptist Church in Poughkeepsie.
This is Brotherhood Week, so it was a fitting time for me to talk about the work of the Human Rights Commission. After a brief service the choir of the AME Zion Church of Poughkeepsie sang two beautiful spirituals, "When the Stars Begin to Fall" and "Lord, I Want to Be a Christian".."
There were a few questions at the end of my talk and many people told me that they now understood the work of the United Nations better. My nicest compliment came as I drove home with two men from my own place who had gone with me. They both remarked that the whole question was much clearer to them, too. For the first time the work of the United Nations seemed something they could be really concerned about as individuals. If only everyone could feel that way I think all of our work would get on better and be easier to explain to everyone.
On Wednesday morning I had a good long walk in the woods before breakfast with Fala and Tamas. They always seem so glad when I come home. Damage from winter storms is still very evident and I wondered if the many fallen trees could be cleared away before the spring work had to begin. The rain began before we got in for breakfast, but it was a gentle rain and not too cold.
Washington's Birthday turned out to be extremely pleasant following Wednesday's rain. But most of us in the country have learned that the weather at this time of year can be very deceptive. We won't be surprised if it turns cold again after this brief whiff of spring!
I had to leave Hyde Park right after lunch on Wednesday and in the evening I went to Washington. This morning I recorded a number of interviews but the real reason I am here is to attend a meeting at which the Chi Omega Achievement Award for 1950 will be given to Miss Edith Hamilton in the field of literature. Also, the award for 1951 will be presented to Mrs. Anna Rosenberg for her outstanding work in the field of public service.
I am particularly happy that this award, which is given by women to focus the attention of college students on the achievements of women in various fields, should go this year to my friend, Anna Rosenberg. It is a recognition that women not only admire achievement but dislike certain methods that may be used to try to discredit a patriotic and able public servant.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1951, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
