
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —I have it on good authority that the bill, HR 53, which is now under consideration and deals with consolidating numerous acts as regards veterans, widows and their pensions, will not make any difference in the old provisions for the widows of the Spanish, Civil or Indian War veterans. I am glad to hear that this is so, because I think people touched by those provisions are apt to be quite old and need whatever the government can do to help them at least avoid starvation in the last years of their lives.
I also have had drawn to my attention a bill, HR 1154, sponsored by the Hon. Eugene J. Keogh of New York. This bill is to provide a reduction for income tax purposes in the case of a disabled individual for expenses to and from work not exceeding $600 per year. It also provides an additional exemption for income tax purposes for a taxpayer or spouse who is permanently disabled. The reasons given for this bill seem to me to be valid, and I think the majority of people will want to see this help given to our physically handicapped citizens.
This seems to be a time of year when awards are given for various reasons, and I was interested to see last week that seven prizes were awarded to trade union editors who directed the American labor press. These papers are important because they reach upward of 20,000,000 people, and their editors carry a great responsibility. It is not surprising to find that two of the top awards went to Edmund Fisher, editor of "Advance," a paper printed by the American Clothing Workers Union, and Martin Morand, editor of the Harrisburg "Garment Worker," published by the local garment workers' union.
I should like to call attention to a book published by the Audubon Society, called "Butterflies and Moths." Those who have not yet seen it have a treat in store for them. No family with children can afford not to keep in touch with the Audubon Society, because they give an opportunity for a family to become acquainted with the world of nature in the most delightful way through books, films and pictures. This becomes a very much more interesting daily adventure than if one has no real knowledge or incentive to study one's physical surroundings.
Last week on TV I also saw an excellent film documentary called "Segregation and the South." It is a factual presentation of the situation as it now stands, and I hope it will be shown particularly in the South.
(COPYRIGHT, 1957, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
