
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Friday.—A few nights ago I got an amusing telegram, a plea that in the interests of freedom of information for the sports world I should attempt to get the State Department to give favorable consideration to the application made by the Daily Worker's sports editor for a passport to report the Olympic games.
I should think the gentleman would be a little nervous about asking for a passport for fear it might be granted to him with alacrity and then cancelled once he reached his destination in Europe. That would leave him high and dry over there. But if the man is an American citizen the government wouldn't do anything like that. All it has a right to do is to keep him home, and that is evidently what it is doing. So I paid no attention to the appeal, and I don't think the freedom to report the Olympics impartially will be hindered.
Watching the Republican National Convention on television makes one quite sure that the day will come when the political parties will have to change their tactics. The viewing audience today is composed of so many millions more than those in attendance. If the political steamroller is operating, people are going to see it operating, and it is going to be quite a shock to them.
A national convention on TV somehow isn't as exciting as being in the hall in person. Seeing people milling about on the floor and watching state banners being carried in parades down the aisles is more fun when you're there. Perhaps, therefore, it is TV that will bring about a revision of our methods of choosing candidates every four years. Something a little more serious and quiet seems to be indicated.
I have been persuaded to go out and speak at the Democratic National Convention and tell the story of the United Nations.
I must say that the more I follow this Republican convention, the less I think that the delegates in any convention will listen to the story of the U.N. It needs to be told, however, and I shall do my best to do so in the briefest possible time.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
