
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —On Monday afternoon I went to Allentown, Pa., to make a speech in the evening and returned by plane. I had the pleasure of dining with Mrs. Louis H. Stamberg and a few of the officers of the organization for which I spoke. It was a very pleasant evening except for the fact that my return plane was some 40 minutes late.
I was accompanied on the return trip by Miss Stamberg, my hostess' daughter, who is studying for an M.A. in literature at Columbia and at the same time trying to get her certificate as a teacher. She seemed to me a most charming and capable young woman but I felt some qualms about leaving her at the subway after midnight to make her way uptown. However, she seemed quite able to take care of herself.
Americans will welcome, I am sure, the visit of Shah Mohammed Reza PahleviPahlavi and Queen Soraya of Iran. They are to be here for two months. The Shah and his sister are both interested in improving conditions for the people of Iran but it must have been very difficult in the past few years to move forward with all the troubles that have assailed their country. One hopes that in the future there may be more internal peace so that it will be possible to improve conditions and relieve some suffering. We welcome this young couple for a good-willgoodwill visit to this country.
It is interesting to find that Egypt has announced her willingness to release the crew and cargo of the Israeli freighter, Bat Galim, seized last September 28. There seems to be some question as to whether their willingness includes permitting the ship to go through the Suez Canal. Unless that is accomplished it will not be such a great satisfaction to have the crew and cargo released. Perhaps, since the U.N. Security Council is meeting on the issue of the Suez Canal, Egypt will also think it wise to permit the ship's passage.
At a meeting of the Foreign Policy Association on Monday night Dr. Eelco van Kleffens, President of the U.N. General Assembly, endeavored to make the difficulties in unifying Europe clearer for our nation. At the same time he went on to explain why there was hope for unity in the common cultural background of Europe if patience and wise leadership were found.
The Foreign Policy Association has for a long time done outstanding work in this country in the field of education. I can remember, as a young woman, attending their luncheons in Albany. They were always stimulating and thought-provoking. It is purely an educational organization that takes no stands but tries to provide the public with information so they can make up their own minds. From an educational point of view this is a most important thing to do. At times the public is slow in formulating its beliefs, however.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
