
                  
                     MEEKER, COLO.MEEKER, Colo.
                  —Haying does not progress as it should because of the rains we've been having every night. In a way this is a pleasure for all of us because it means that Elliott is at home instead of in the hay fields. Mrs. AlphonsoAlphonzo Bell, Minnewa's mother, has a house here but like many of us, as we grow older, she wishes to shed her responsibilities and she is staying here with Minnewa and plans to give Minnewa and Elliott her house to use for their guests. This, of course, pleases them but whenever Mrs. Bell wants this house it will be ready for her which is an ideal arrangement.
In spite of wanting to shed some of her responsibilities Mrs. Bell wanted to have one party while she was here and so today she gave a very large picnic at noon to which most of the neighbors were invited. I took her over early to dust in case the rain might spoil her chances of having a party out-of-doors. However the day was beautiful and the picnic by the river near her house was a great success. Afterwards we all went over to Mr. John Butts' home next door to watch the young people do some tumbling on the trampoline.
On the way home Minnewa and I stopped at the little community house because we had been asked to see the church school which goes on every afternoon for two weeks. A student from Yale Divinity School is in charge and it is under the auspices of the Methodist Church. About 17 children between the ages of four and 12 were there from the neighborhood. They were cutting out and coloring madly, creating a scene on the Sea of Galilee. They are being instructed in the church service and they open their afternoon with a half hour of bible story telling.
Some of the children today were dressed in the costume of biblical days. They looked very charming and seemed to enjoy telling us who they they represented. We all sat around the table and refreshments were served by the children and I told them a little about my trip to the Holy Land last spring and something of what Israel is like today. After that my daughter-in-law and I took a little drive and now I think she and Mrs. Morgan are going fishing to add to the wonderful mess of trout caught by Senator Fulbright. He has had very good luck fishing but his wife says she has caught only one little one.
As soon as the picnic was over Elliott announced that haying was on and invited some of the guests to come and work for him for a dollar an hour but I don't know how many took him up.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
