
                  
                     VANCOUVER, B.C..—On Sunday afternoon Miss Maureen Corr and I left on the four o'clock plane for Salt Lake City, and after a few hours' sleep there we started out again and flew to Rexburg, Idaho, and then to here.
In a few days sad goodbyes will be said in New York to a gentleman who has made his home there for the past 30 years. He is Mr. J.J. Singh, an Indian who came to the United States on business in the 1920s and stayed to work for better understanding between our two countries.
Among other things, he established the India League, which with his departing will come to an end. More important, his home, which was presided over in recent years by his very charming wife and two delightful boys, became a center where East and West met. In fact, his drawing room was the center for many interesting discussions that may well have had an effect on the policies of many nations. Above everything else, various people had an opportunity to meet, friendships were formed, and an understanding of one another was developed.
I have always enjoyed my contacts with Mr. and Mrs. Singh, and while I quite understand their reasons for returning to their native land I hope they will never forget that the U.S. is their second home.
They must return here often, and I know they will attract many people from the United States to visit India. This, I think, will add to the services they have already rendered their country. We said goodbye to them with much regret and we shall always greet them with open hearts when they return.
On last Friday afternoon I drove to Woodstock, N.Y., to speak to the Parent-Teachers Association there on Soviet education and education in the U.S. It was a stimulating gathering, and we enjoyed dinner beforehand with a varied group of people, among whom were some of the International Business Machines executives, who are located in the new Kingston, N.Y., plant of that company. As in many other parts of our country, education for their children is a very exciting topic and our conversation on the whole question of buildings, teachers' salaries and curriculums was very heated.
I spent mostly all of last Saturday at Hyde Park doing the last-minute things there in preparation for my month's absence abroad. Some friends came to lunch, and at about 5:30 I drove over to have supper and to speak to the Youth Fellowship of St. James Parish in Hyde Park. Leaders of many groups from churches in Poughkeepsie, Staatsburgh, Rhinebeck and other nearby towns were invited, so that we were really quite a group.
The audience wanted to know how youngsters of high-school age lived in different parts of the world where I have visited, so we took an imaginary journey around the world together. When my talk was over I was deluged with questions and I'm sure I could have stayed till a very late hour. But since I had to drive to New York City I left in the middle of the evening.
(Copyright, 1959, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
