
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —Yesterday afternoon the Under Secretary of the Interior, Oscar L. Chapman, gave the memorial address for the Roosevelt Home Club in Hyde Park. Two of the youngest children of the members laid the wreath on my husband's grave. It has been the custom every year to hold services there on Memorial Day.
The hedge around the rose garden is particularly beautiful this year because of the rain we have had. The peonies are just beginning to come out and some of the roses are in bloom. So, it was a particularly nice place in which to hold the service yesterday.
The two little boys carrying the wreath followed the Boy Scouts and laid the wreath very carefully in place. Then they stood stiffly at attention, with their hands over their hearts, while "Taps" was played.
I was told that on Saturday there were nearly 10,000 people visiting the library, house and grave, and a crowd that size always taxes every facility to the limit. The week-endweekend holiday was so chilly that I was surprised to find the crowds came out in such numbers. Even though the papers reported there were fewer people than usual leaving the city because of the weather, the highways seemed to me extremely busy. The line of cars seemed unending and one realized that with so many people on the roads a certain amount of care would have to be exercised.
I was shocked to read of the death of W.A. Julian in an automobile accident in Maryland. He had been Treasurer of the United States since the beginning of my husband's first term as President, and we had come to feel he would always remain in that position. He was always very kind and courteous, and I am sure his many friends will deeply regret that this accident brought his long life to an end.
It is certainly good to see the Ford strike settled. Leaving to arbitration their differences shows the confidence on both sides that there will be an honest effort to meet the divergent viewpoints. It can, I think, be said that this will be applauded as a wise move on the part of both sides.
Walter Reuther's attitude of willingness to accept something less than everything that he desired—and feeling that a step gained in the right direction is something for which one should be grateful—shows great wisdom. It certainly is the right philosophy at the present time.
We went back to work this morning at Lake Success. The first of June is here and that leaves us only twenty-one days to finish all the work that lies ahead. I hope we can move very quickly toward completion of this first draft of the Covenant so that we can have before the next meeting of the Human Rights Commission the benefit of comments from all governments.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1949, by UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
