
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I went up to Syracuse last Saturday to speak at the State Convention of Young Democrats.
It was an extraordinarily successful meeting. One of the best things that the Democratic state organization has done is to put a little new life into this organization and give it enough money so that it can really begin to organize throughout the state.
I understand that 40 counties now have some kind of organization, which means that there are 22 more where work should be done as soon as possible.
In the evening I went to the Rooftop Theatre here to see a performance of James Joyce's "Ulysses in Night Town."
This is, of course, only one section of the poem in which the text has been supervised by Padraic Colum and the production put together by Burgess Meredith. It is a most successful and remarkable production in which Zero Mostel stands out as an actor.
The poem has always been slightly confusing to me, and the play still has its spots of confusion, but I enjoyed it tremendously and I was glad I had made the effort to see it. There is something here of inspiration and insight into human beings and a beauty of words which lifts the spirit.
I have just received from the Institute of International Education its report for the year.
Again in the year 1957 to 1958 this country led the free world in education of foreign nationals, with 43,391 students and scholars coming to study in 1,801 American schools from 145 countries, some as remote as Basutoland and the Fiji Islands. Men students still outnumber women by more than three to one. The only country to send more women than men was the Philippines.
The number of American students going abroad to study rose again. They numbered 12,845 in 52 countries. Fifty-eight percent went to Europe, 20 percent studied in Latin America, and 13 percent went to Canada. These figures are for the year 1956-'57 because it takes longer to get the statistics from overseas universities.
Thirty-three percent of the students studying here came from the Far East and 21 percent from Latin America, but our neighbor, Canada, sent the largest number from any single country.
It is interesting to note that 23 percent, the largest percentage in a single category of students, were enrolled in engineering. The next largest category was in the humanities.
The Far and Middle East and Latin America concentrated most heavily on engineering. The Africans concentrated more on social sciences and the Europeans and Canadians on the humanities.
Contrary to what is generally believed, 42.3 percent study in this country on their own funds, 29.4 percent are aided by private organizations, only five percent are subsidized mainly by the U.S. government and another two percent by a combination of U.S. government and private funds.
So it would seem that these students were attracted not only by the chance of being subsidized, but by the belief that our graduate schools give the best training available.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
