
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —In summing up the trip through the three states, Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming, I think I can say that our regional director, Mr. Skeen, and Professor Robinson who came with him to the meeting in Wyoming, were most helpful. I am hopeful Professor Robinson will help us even more in the future as he travels a great deal in the Middle West and in the Southern and Mountain States.
We reached Laramie, Wyoming at noon Friday after only three hours in bed in that fabulous motel called "Little America." It is run by a very young couple and they seem to do a remarkable job of living up to the ideals of the founder. He said that as a little boy herding sheep he had had to spend a cold winter's night out in the open in that area, and that from then on he had wanted to have a warm and sheltering place for strangers to take refuge. Little America is a warm and sheltering place, with extraordinarily good accomodationsaccommodations for a motel. We had to get up very early to have our breakfast and start for Laramie, but we arrived there in ample time for the luncheon meeting. On the way we saw large flocks of sheep, a few cattle and a goodly number of antelope.
The luncheon in Laramie was well attended, and many people present came from cities and towns all over the state. At least twelve different places were represented. It was presided over by the head of the League of Women Voters, because Mr. McGee, chairman of the international relations committee at the college, had to speak to 300 high school journalists who were meeting on the campus over last week endweekend. They all came to the afternoon meeting which I addressed in the college auditorium. Mr. McGee told me they had 1,500 students and faculty present and that no one except an athletic hero had had such good attendance. I am flattered, of course, to be in such good company.
At seven o'clock they held their open public meeting in the same auditorium and they estimated they had about 1,200 present. I was surprised that we could have so many meetings with such good audiences, and delighted since it shows how much interest there really is in the United Nations.
After the evening meeting Mr. McGee and another professor drove Miss Baillargeon and myself to Denver for the one a.m. plane.
Our flight was smooth and uneventful. We got back to New York feeling relieved and yet pleased that we had carried off this trip on our own apparently successfully. Nevertheless, we hope very much that from now on Mr. Clark Eichelberger will be with us.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT,. 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
