
                  
                     MIAMI, Fla.MIAMI
                  —Many people who are deeply interested in the
United Nations and its future work must have been relieved that
Ambassador Adlai Stevenson decided against running for the U.S.
Senate from Illinois. Of course, he will remain instead in his position
as head of the U.S. delegation to the U.N.
Pearl Harbor Day has come and gone. It no longer fills us with
the sense of outrage we felt on that fateful day in 1941, but I hope
it will always stay in our mind. For that was a complete surprise
attack, as sudden as one that might come today with the opening of a
nuclear war, and the havoc created was greater because of our natural
surprise and incredulity.
What happened at Pearl Harbor 20 years ago points up the fact
that we should always be alert for the worst, even though the worst
seems highly improbable. To be prepared for the worseworst and still
keep calm and not neglect the ordinary tasks of life is one of the
real tests of the strength of character of men and women today.
To do everything that you must do to prevent the worst possible
disaster, hoping all the time that no disaster will occur, and to go
on as though you were completely confident of the future is a very
difficult thing to ask of human beings.
We are naturally buoyant and optimistic as a people, and it is
very difficult for us to believe that something fatal is going to
happen to us. But the times seem to call for this kind of staunchness
of spirit, and young and old must try to develop it.
The lesson of Pearl Harbor must stay with us all. Those on the
island were as little prepared as we were on the mainland for this
sudden attack, so we must learn to prepare in spirit and in fact for
the things which seem impossible and still keep a calm and normal
approach to everyday life.
I was visited the other day by a representative of the
Volunteers for International Development, an organization that works
under the auspices of Springfield College in Springfield, Mass.
Since 1958 the VID has made investigations and studies and has sent
volunteers abroad as a first step in a program designed to supplement
the technical assistance work of the U.N. and its specialized
agencies. The organization is placing, at moderate pay, technically
trained people and recently retired experts in U.N.-related projects
and within development programs of governments and U.N. agencies.
I am constantly being asked how individuals can aid the U.N.
and be useful to their country. Some of them are not eligible for
the Peace Corps. Many of them do not need to make money but must
have enough to live on. The one thing that animates them all is a
desire to feel that they are useful—young and old alike. Here
seems to be a program that can use some of these people.
From June, 1959, to May, 1961, the VID received requests for
53 volunteers from seven U.N. institutes and governments. It
presently has some 300 volunteers' names on file; it raises its own
funds and acknowledges the gift of free office space; and all of its
volunteers are willing to work for low salaries. For a group that
has been at work for such a short time it has gained a great deal of
favorable recognition.
For instance, Dr. Max Millikan, Director of the Center for
International Studies, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, says
of the organization: "The greatest need of the developing countries
is for help from trained and dedicated persons committed to the host
country's self-help objectives. VID offers an opportunity to match
the spirit of service with this need."
There seems to be a rather broad feeling of amusement, as
well as a form of disgust, at the recent speech by an Arab delegate
in the U.N. which indicted so many individuals and countries that it
apparently had the exactly opposite effect from that which the
speaker intended.
The extravagant accusations brought about amusement instead
of the indignation which he apparently hoped to inspire. In one
place he announced that Zionism was worse than Hitlerism, and this
caused amusement both on the floor and in the galleries.
I hope our delegates are able to turn such absurdities to
good advantage, for intemperance such as this is its own worst enemy.
The best way to handle it is to bring out the untruths of the statements
made, but always with a tone of ridicule.
(Copyright, 1961, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
