
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —Over the week endweekend we had a very gay time. My young niece and her husband from Franklin, Mich., came on for a few days to forget the cares of four small children and an architect's work. I'm sure they'll go back better able to work both in business and at home! For special gaiety, therefore, John Golden invited us to luncheon at the 21 Club and then took us to the City Center to see the New York City Theatre Company give "Captain Brassbound's Conversion" by George Bernard Shaw. Mrs. Vincent Impellitteri, wife of the Mayor, was also his guest.
At the end of the play, which was extremely well done and enjoyed by all, we went back to congratulate Edna Best, the star. Then we went with Mrs. Impellitteri to Gracie Mansion where Mr. Golden, entering into the spirit of the afternoon, played and sang some of his own songs and sent us all home feeling we had had a very gay time.
In the evening we dined with Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Chandor, and I had a chance to see the portrait which he has done of me and which has been on exhibition in the National Gallery in Washington. It was not finished when I saw it last here.
Though I hate sitting for portraits and hope never to have to do it again, I must say that this is beautifully done. If one has to go down to posterity on canvas, it is pleasant to know that one is portrayed by an artist who has certainly done all that good painting can do to make the portrait both charming and interesting.
I have always enjoyed an opportunity to talk with both Mr. and Mrs. Chandor. There is a nice mixture of Texas and Great Britain, and he has the kind of humor that I find particularly delightful.
On Tuesday, Jan. 9, those who are devoted to the memory of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt will think of her birthday, which falls on this date, and remember meetings with her in the past. A presentation will be made in her memory at the Library of Congress by those among her associates and workers who have been caring for her papers and arranging for their final transference to the Library of Congress.
These papers are of great interest for two reasons. First, they cover almost the entire period of the later struggle for woman suffrage in this country. Mrs. Catt was fortunate to have lived long enough to see the results for which she worked.
But much as she wanted women to have the right to vote and take part in their government that was not her only interest. She was deeply interested in world peace and in widening the understanding between women the world over. She worked with women of other countries to help them organize and win participation in their governments. Back of it all, I'm sure, lay the hope that when women shared in the power of governments peace would be more easily attainable.
In the ceremony that will take place at the Library of Congress I hope there will be in the hearts of those women present a desire to rededicate their efforts to the cause of peace.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1951, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
