
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —The work done by our local YM and YWCA's is familiar to most of us, but every now and then I find something done by them somewhere in the country which I think exceptionally good. One such thing in the District of Columbia has just come to my attention, and I believe women all over the country should know about it.
This is a project at the Hannah Harrison School for Women in Washington, which is administered by the YWCA. Women with limited funds who cannot find employment can get free vocational training there, and the latest course offered is a course in practical nursing which will last 49 weeks. The first 17 weeks will be spent at the school, where theoretical instruction will be given. The following 32 weeks will be devoted to practical training in the new Washington hospital center. The school is accredited by the National Association for Practical Nurse Education, Inc.
This course will give women a skill which is an urgent community need. It is a profession that is well paid, and middle-aged women can easily take the course. The school offers free instruction, room and board to any woman needing the training.
I frequently get letters from middle-aged women who cannot find jobs because for some reason they cannot go on with what they have been doing. This opportunity, with free training, will give many of these women a rewarding profession which they can use for many years to come. Forty-nine weeks may seem to some a long time, but it is less than a year and well worth the time taken.
Today's newspapers are full of the rescue of the small boy from the well near his Long Island home. It is a fine thing to find how many people answer to the call for help in saving a small boy, and how the whole community hangs upon the successful accomplishment of the rescue. Everyone will join in the happiness of the boy's father and mother and hope that no further ordeals are ahead for little Benny Hooper.
The President spoke a little more strongly in support of the budget to the Midwest Republican leaders in Cincinnati than he has done previously. He asked for the election of a Republican Congress, pleading that in this way the people would know who carried the real responsibility for what is done in Congress. Judging from the past record, the situation that now exists in the Republican party would mean that a return of a Republican Congress would assure only the defeat of all the President's policies. He carries his plans only when the Democrats stick out their necks and vote for his leadership, So what I think the President had really better do is to ask for more Democrats to be elected, otherwise Senator Knowland and his followers may snow the President's program under.
(COPYRIGHT, 1957, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
