
                  
                     WASHINGTON.—I have had a very nice time staying in my son James' home since I came to Washington a few days ago. But we had only one meal together before he left on a hurried speaking trip to the West Coast. On his return, we will breakfast together and then I will leave for the Shoreham hotel, taking my bags with me in preparation for my departure at the end of the annual conference of the American Association for the United Nations.
I feel that the A. A. U. N.AAUN board of governors meeting was more successful than any we have had since I became chairman. Representatives from 32 states attended, and the participation and interest was most encouraging.
I went directly to our first meeting of the whole group from a hearing of the subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee where I testified on the value of specialized agencies to our economy.
One of the Congressmen told me that the day before someone had testified that we might just as well give up our membership in the specialized agencies because the Soviets always got what they wanted and we were always defeated. This amused me because I worked on the Commission on Human Rights for years and, although this was not a specialized agency, I never remember the Soviets achieving much success with their ideas.
In committees of the General Assembly, the vote was continually on the side opposed to the Soviets, with Russia getting only its vote and those of its satellites. I am sure that in the last three years conditions could not have changed so drastically that the Soviets are always winning their objectives and we are always losing ours. So I think there must have been some exaggeration on the part of the gentleman testifying before the Foreign Affairs Committee.
I had the great pleasure of lunching with a number of the Democratic members of the committee and was surprised to hear that ranking members of this important committee are not called in for consultation by the President despite the fact that appropriations originate in the House.
Members of the House are even closer to their constituents than members of the Senate and I would think that it would be valuable to the President to consult with members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee as well as with members of the Senate's Foreign Relations Committee.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
