
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I left New York early last Wednesday for Denver, Colo., where my son and daughter-in-law met me with their little two-motor plane. Western Colorado has had a drought since May, but all was green in the White River Valley as we flew to the ranch, getting there by 4 p.m.
I was taken to see some new land my children had bought for pasture high up in the mountains. We used a jeep, as nothing else would go over what they call roads but what I would call trails! Riding a horse is really the ideal way to get around this part of the country.
We climbed over rocks and trees and had gorgeous views. And, incidentally, we looked for cattle, saw a considerable number and tried to guess their weight. I was truly appreciative of the beautiful upland country.
The ranch now includes 8,000 acres, and it is not only good pasture but good hunting and fishing country. Mr. Combes of the Combes Aircraft Company showed me the head of a wild game animal that he had shot there last year. It had one of the most beautiful sets of horns I have ever seen.
Both my uncle, Theodore Roosevelt, and my father, Elliott Roosevelt, hunted in this part of the country and in many other parts of the world, so I think I know a little about heads and horns.
At times in my life I have wished that none of my family had ever hunted. For, like every other possession of interest and value, I had to take care of their hunting trophies. Now I have disposed of most of them, and I enjoy seeing them when other people have to take care of them.
My purpose in going out to Colorado at this time was to speak at the summer graduation ceremonies of one of my grandsons, Elliott Roosevelt Jr., at Colorado State University. He received his degree and also his second lieutenancy in the Army. He has chosen to go into the paratroopers, so will begin his six-months' training in February.
The ceremonies were impressive, but since it was quite warm and many people were seated in the sun, I was glad that many students do not graduate in the summer. Many of those who did graduate were older teachers receiving higher degrees or students wanting to make progress in a chosen line of learning.
President W. E. Morgan of the university, and these in charge of military training, all spoke very highly of "Tony," as we call him, which was pleasant for me, as well as for his father, to hear.
What an exciting trip the Nautilus must have had! This is a real adventure and it is wonderful to have the submarine's commander, W. R. Anderson, receive the Legion of Merit, and to have all the crew also receive a special ribbon.
This is a great peacetime achievement and everyone can make use of the information thus acquired.
The new regulations for crossing the street in New York City went into effect last Friday. I really think it would be simpler if everybody were just told they had to cross when the light is green and that they must not cross anywhere at the street corners and never diagonally. Complicating life with the "Don't Walk" signals and telling drivers that they must yield the right of way to traffic just makes it more complicated.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
