
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —I have just received a letter from a gentleman who is greatly interested in more scholarships for young people.
Pointing out that scholarships now available are largely in the field of physical sciences and that the social science field needs at least equal attention, he says:
"If we are going to build a better world, we must have more social workers, sociologists, psychologists, psychiatrists, and people skilled in human relations."
In this respect, it is interesting to note that labor has been showing more interest in how we are to use the maximum of our human resources in this country and, in doing so, how to work out the best techniques to meet conditions in the world of tomorrow.
If, in an atomic world we find ourselves producing more in a shorter time and man can earn a living in fewer hours of work, then we must be prepared to use our increased leisure creatively and constructively.
This will mean the development of new opportunities, both in child and adult education. But it also will bring a need for better guidance.
And this, I think, lies in back of the preoccupation shown, for instance, by Leo Perlis, director of Community Service Activities for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organization, in getting young people to take up some form of social service as a career.
In a pamphlet reprinted from Child Welfare, the journal of the Child Welfare League of America, Perlis proposes that one percent of every Community Chest and United Fund goal be earmarked for scholarships in social welfare study. And he suggests the scholarship fund be allocated to and administered by a committee of the Council of Social Agencies.
The purpose would be to encourage young men and women to train for social work as a career.
On the other hand, the public would have to understand the importance of the work to be done in their communities on this level. And residents of the communities would have to help establish among themselves a better standing for social workers so that the contribution by these workers would be greater than it is now.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
