
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Thursday
                  —I want to make known in my column that I am very pleased with the fact that great efforts are being made in Washington to reach a compromise on a bill that will permit Federal aid to education. I believe strongly in this and I believe, too, in a spirit of compromise. Therefore, even though I may not fully agree with any bill that is finally decided upon, I shall rejoice in whatever the House and the Senate agree upon as long as it achieves the basic objective of giving greater and more equal opportunity for education to children all over this country.
I spent yesterday in New York City. As I drove out in the morning I suddenly realized that the purple loostrifeloosestrife is at its height. My whole swamp is ablaze with it and the reflection in the water is beautiful.
We also have a family of little wild ducks, which swim after their mother in the brook, and two beautiful white egrets, which I am told are very rare in this part of the country. They have visited us now for two years, and to my surprise yesterday I saw a great gray one lift itself from the edge of the brook and take flight across it. When I returned last evening after a hot day in New York City, I could not help rejoicing in all the beauty and being a little sorry for those who have to keep on looking at city streets.
In town I did recordings of some interviews for the radio program with my daughter. I also met with Vincent Sheean, whose new book, "Lead Kindly Light," is largely a tale of his time spent in India. I look forward to reading this volume more carefully and with more leisure than I have had in the past months. It is a dreadful thing to skim through a book when you are really interested, and yet one is forced to do that when one is really busy. This is one of the books, however, from which I hope to gain real enlightenment.
Yesterday I was promised a piece of cloth from Paula Stout's own mills! She designs her own fabrics and told me some time ago she would give me a piece of cloth, but at that time she did not have her own mill. Now she is designing and creating her own fabrics in her own mill in Pennsylvania.
It is wonderful to see someone who has quite evidently wanted to do some particular thing all her life finally doing it with such joy. She insists upon sending me samples but I am sure that whatever she chose as a combination would be all right.
It is interesting to watch this Polish woman winning her way to success in this country. For all artists there must be a great sense of satisfaction in producing something that not only gives them joy, but gives joy to others.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1949, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
