
                  
                     WARM SPRINGS, Ga.
                  —I flew here from New York to take part in the exercises commemorating the 20th anniversary of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis.
Many doctors interested in the foundation, and other people who have worked to bring about the great success which has crowned their efforts in the last 20 years, were present.
Dr. Jonas Salk was the center of attention. I was delighted to have this opportunity of really getting to know him, and particularly glad to be able to say a few words of thanks to Basil O'Connor, who through his imagination and untiring efforts has brought about the success the foundation is now enjoying.
The foundation is planning for the future, and I am sure it will not only continue the work necessary for past victims of polio but will find new areas in which to benefit mankind. My husband would have wanted them to go on, and I am happy that the organization looks forward to greater progress instead of feeling that its work is over.
Being in Warm Springs is always an interesting experience for me. This is a place where the people work to get well, and everything in the layout of the institution makes possible the greatest development in each individual patient.
For instance, the last time I was here model kitchens were being installed so that patients could learn how to keep house from a wheelchair and how to use various devices making it possible to accomplish the necessary work if you were the mother of a family who has suffered from this handicapping disease.
The pool once used for exercising patients is now no longer available to them, and a smaller facility is available right near the center of the buildings.
The spirit of the patients has remained remarkable, as it always was, and I think anyone who comes here will forever be inspired by the courage of those who are fighting their way back to a useful life.
My husband had a favorite spot to which he liked to drive, when he was spending some time here. It was called the Knob, a promontory overlooking a vast plain. Many picnics were held here, and he liked to come and sit here quietly for half an hour and just look at the expanse of country opening up in every direction.
Since those early days roads have been improved and the Calloway family has built a beautiful park. Nearby there is a general store where country produce can be bought. This store always fascinates me and I want to try all of its specialties from so many parts of our country.
Most people do not realize that hams are cured in a different way in at least four areas of the country, and I am sure there are others that I have never tasted. Right from here I always send a ham home so that I may enjoy the special flavor that this area is proud to share.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
