
                  
                           New York City
                        
                     —I saw in the paper on Wednesday that Mr. V.K. Krishna Menon was going to deliver a very important announcement in the Security Council on the Kashmir question. The Council is considering a resolution under which it would send its President, Mr. Gunnar V. Jarring of Sweden, to India in an attempt to solve the two nation'snations' difficulties over Kashmir. I have yet to see in the papers that the Security Council has invited Mr. Frank Graham who spent so much time as UNU.N. mediator between Pakistan and India and brought the Prime Ministers to their first meeting over Kashmir, to give his final report and recommendations on this particular situation. Sending another mediator without having the full background of what has already happened does not seem to me very strikeoutunremarkableare sensible. I cannot imagine either that any message no matter how lengthy from Mr. Krishna Menon is going to solve the present situation.
The American Bar Association is again on the wrong side of a question. They seem to have a genius for taking the most reactionary point of view, so they are still for the Bricker Amendment. Senator Bricker told the American Legion's Committee on Legislation that his amendment was "the only way to stop the international planners who are determined to drag America down to a common level and socialize American life".." He is apparently hoping for approval by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee this year ANDand then will put on a major fight in the Senate and House next year. I hope with this advance notice that there will be a real educational campaign throughout the country. President Eisenhower has opposed the amendment because it would make it impossible for him to enter into executive agreements and these are most important and necessary in times such as we are now living in. Why Mr. Bricker bothers to do anything more about his amendment I don't know because the State Department has given him a complete victory without any fight at all since they have announced they are presenting no international treaties for ratification.
We returned to NYN.Y. yesterday and I found as usual a desk piled high with mail. I look back to last Sunday and the few hours we spent in Phoenix, Arizona, with great pleasure. We saw the new house which my daughter-in-law Minnewa has built in an orange grove in Scottsdale. She has a gift for blending modern things and old things and making a house a charming home. Her taste is so good that I think she could earn a living easily as an interior decorator and she knows how to make a room comfortable for a man and still she makes all the arrangements which are most convenient for a woman. She has the kind of linen closet that I have always wanted but never had the sense to arrange for in my home, and she has inspired me to try and re-plan my closet space.
Minnewa and Elliott had a tea party in the afternoon at which I had the pleasure of seeing Mrs. William Benton and a number of their other friends, some of whom I have met in Colorado. After dinner we stopped in for a short visit with Mrs. Albert Lasker and her friend, Miss Mahoney, who have taken a house for a month on the utskirtsoutskirts of the Biltmore Estates. That too was a joy, so my Sunday was a very pleasant day!
