
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —I wanted to tell you a little bit about a most delightful puppet show which was given at a party for my grandchildren and Mrs. Hershey Martin's children in Los Angeles. It was done by Mr. Douglas Richardson, who also sings and plays the guitar. He arrives in time to decorate the whole room with variegated balloons. I don't think I ever saw such a successful show, with all the children enchanted. If Mr. Richardson ever comes to New York, I shall have him come and perform for all the children I can corral there.
I was thinking as I flew across the country how fortunate it is that Richard NeuburgerNeuberger was elected in Oregon. He made his campaign largely on the issues of conservation and I am perfectly sure that this is one of the most important issues before us today. It will be a good thing to have his voice in the Senate speaking on conservation and telling his colleagues, as well as the country, what the dangers are that we face through wastefulness and lack of understanding. The latter is what keeps us from giving adequate support and protection to park and forest services.
Next year will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment, by a foresighted administration, of the Forest Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Many states have now established their own forestry departments. There are forestry schools and private and public conservation organizations, and noteworthy progress has been made in the Forest Service during the past half century.
There is organized protection today in vast areas of our country against forest fires. We still have forest fires but they are usually stopped more quickly than they would be if there were no organized protection. I have seen in Colorado a great area where all the trees died from the ravages of a certain insect. But the forestry service went to work and this pest was discovered and gradually held in check. There is increasing good management and wise use of the nation's forests and related resources.
The Forest Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture has worked to maintain and increase the productivity of forest land everywhere in the country. It cooperates with the states and with private land owners. It does research work and it cares for the national forests. Its upcoming golden anniversary should stress for us all the need to uphold the Forest Service and encourage it to go forward in its work. It should bring to all our people a greater awareness of the needs of the service and the benefits it brings to all of us.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
