
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —Of special interest to me is an international venture called "The International Union For the Protection of Nature." It is actually a U.N. program through its connection with UNESCO, and appeals to me particularly because it can develop the interest of the farmer and nature lover throughout the world to joint cooperation. It is composed of "governments, international organizations and organizations within nations all concerned with the conservation of renewable natural resources."
My husband was enormously interested in awakening our people to the conservation of our own natural resources. We know today, however, that it is not enough to preserve our own resources. We are all dependent on each other, and the waste of natural resources anywhere is important to all of us. In many areas of the world very little has been done to bring the people to an understanding of how important it is to preserve wild lifewildlife, to guard the top soil of a nation, as well as its waters and forests. This requires legislation and, very often, the education of children and adults in appreciation of their natural environment so that they will not endanger by their actions the preservation of their natural resources.
It frequently means we must enter into international agreements. I think this organization should get the support of farm and forestry organizations in our country, as well as all the other organizations that touch on conservation, since what we do alone is not sufficient to protect us.
Another international venture was brought to my attention in New York the other day by two gentlemen representing the International Graphic Arts Society, Inc. They brought me a small exhibition of prints, from other countries as well as from our own, which they now have ready for distribution. They feel that through the arts we can greatly improve understanding and cooperation among the nations of the world.
I think museums and schools and libraries would find it advantageous to become members of this society. Its purpose is to distribute the work of outstanding American and European graphic artists to members in the United States and throughout the world. Juries in both Europe and America select the works to be reproduced, and the plan of distribution and sale makes it possible for members to own works of real value.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
