
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —A campaign sponsored by the New York Adult
Education Committee will be held in New York City from November 11
to 17. The object of the campaign is to get people to visit the
evening school program, and it is succeeding wonderfully in bringing
older people into schools. There is a great hunger for certain
mental skills among older people who, because of foreign origin or
because of lack of opportunity when they were children, have missed
out on acquiring the tools for academic education.
I think a program of this kind, when really successful, would
make a difference in the home life of many families in our big
cities. If it proves successful here, it ought to be equally
successful in other cities throughout our nation.
There is a growing interest in how we are to get on with the
rest of the world and with people of different races and religions
here at home, as evidenced by a meeting at Town Hall which I attended
yesterday afternoon. It was sponsored by the Bureau for Intercultural
Education. Their program, however, is one which would be benefited
greatly by adult education, since they cannot possibly hope to get
certain ideas over to people unless they are literate and have the
habit of reading and expressing their thoughts.
In a democracy such as ours, the education of all the people is
a vital necessity. They cannot become articulate and express their
beliefs unless they can both write and speak.
A lack of these abilities in our people often leads our leaders
astray. On one particular issue, for instance, I think the people of
this country are probably ahead of their Representatives. Almost
every day some group or organization sends me a plan which they have
undertaken for stimulating our Congress into supporting UNRRA, or
for adding to the food supply which is being sent to allied countries.
There is far more interest than most of us realize in seeing
that people throughout the world do not starve this coming winter.
The interest is greater, I believe, than the people responsible
for transmitting news evidently understood during the Quebec Food
Conference. From what I hear, the general reporting of that conference
seems to have been done with little understanding of the real
achievements that were going on day by day. There were differences;
but there was also great determination to come to an agreement and
to make this essential part of the United Nations Organization work
for the good of the world in the future. Peoples all over the world
want to have faith that the over-alloverall organization will work, since
they know their security depends upon good willgoodwill among nations. They
realize that success must come, however, through the meetings of
different groups, and the food problems stand out as the most
important in many people's thoughts.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
