
                  
                     HYDE PARK
                  , Sept. 27.—Everyone throughout the entire country was undoubtedly deeply distressed when the news came over the radio of the President's heart attack. It is good to know that it is a mild attack, but even a mild attack requires rest and care for a certain period of time. And if the President's rest can be a complete one he will recover that much more quickly. I know many people who have had heart attacks and years later are living busy and useful lives. A heart attack should serve as a warning, but it doesn't mean that after the proper rest a person cannot resume a normal existence.
There are enough able people around the President to carry the government through the present time. Fortunately for us, the conference of the heads of state which meant so much in bringing about a changed atmosphere of negotiation, has taken place, and now the work must be carried on by the foreign ministers. There is no reason why the President cannot be consulted from time to time if all goes well after the first few weeks, and I think much progress can be made in what of necessity will be a slow period of development. We cannot expect disarmament to become a reality until there have been many months of negotiation. We cannot expect the problems which face us in many areas of the world to be solved until, one by one, different phases are clarified. So I do not think the President need feel unduly worried at his enforced inactivity. The things he cares about and the work toward a more peaceful world can go on, and by the time he is needed he will be able to make his contribution again.
I came to Hyde Park on Saturday morning for the first time since my return from abroad last Sunday, and it is pleasant to find flowers in the garden and even roses blooming. At this season one expects a frost almost every night, but it is good to find things still alive in the morning. The leaves are beginning to turn, and I took a walk in the woods this morning, where the promise of our usual autumn glory of red and yellow was just beginning to show.
I like the autumn season and the weather already smacks of October and its invigorating air. The children can ride their horses now in the woods without the flies, which makes the woods unbearable in the summer, and I must say that my two grandchildren have become very good horsewomen.
My old friend, Mrs. Fayerweather, whose daughter and son-in-law were so kind to us in Hong Kong, spent the weekend with me, and it did seem ironical that I could tell her about her youngest grandchild whom she has never seen.
Tomorrow I go back to New York, to my office at the American Association for the United Nations and to a multitude of other activities.
