
                  
                     FALL RIVER, MASS.FALL RIVER, Mass.
                  —On Monday night I again saw "Inherit the Wind," with Paul Muni, and enjoyed it just as much as the first time. I think it is a play well worth seeing and I hope it will continue to enjoy the popularity which it still seems to have.
Tuesday I went for the day to Wilmington, Delaware, attending in the afternoon a christening of a very delightful young lady just about three months old, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. Shedd.
I first met Mrs. Shedd when she came over here in the early Nazi days, a refugee from Austria, and we have kept in touch with each other ever since. She has become a wonderful citizen, possessing much of the enterprise of our early pioneer Americans. She makes up her mind what she wants to do and somehow her determination and persistence fits her to do the job, and she does it remarkably well.
I am very proud of the way she has built her life in this country and her husband, Clifford, who is a New Englander, has helped her in every possible way. They are a happy couple, and their baby is a crowning joy. It was wonderful to be with them and with their many friends in Arden, Delaware, on this happy occasion. Luckily a girl baby can have two godmothers, so even though I fear I may not be a very useful one, she will have one young godmother to fulfill the necessary duties of that office.
In the evening I spoke at a meeting in connection with the bond drive for Israel.
I thought my hosts were the kindest people in the world. They discovered that by driving on the new speedway they could get me home earlier than if I took the train, so they drove me home. But even so, the night was none too long!
I had looked forward on Wednesday to having Madame Genevieve Tabouis lunch with me as she was to arrive early that morning on her way to San Francisco. Air France, however notified me that her flight was delayed 10 hours, and now I only hope I will have the pleasure of seeing her at some time while she is here.
Being a newspaperwoman she is always very well informed on European affairs and I am very glad she is to be in San Francisco in connection with the observances of the signing of the United Nations Charter. Of course, she'll be on hand, too, for any meetings between the representatives of the great powers which might take place when they are all in San Francisco.
Often in the past she has been somewhat pessimistic about world situations, but I think she is one of the most seasoned of political writers and I always read what she writes with the greatest of interest.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
