NEW YORK.—I went to the New York Philharmonic Symphony concert Saturday night at Carnegie Hall where Paul Paray conducted and the guest artist was Tossy Spivakovsky, violinist. The rain was coming down in torrents, and we were late and could not get to our seats for the first number, so we sat and listened in the bar and drank an extra cup of coffee.
The whole concert was pleasant and I enjoyed it very much. I had never heard the last number, "Espana," a rhapsody by Chabrier, and I could almost see people dancing to it.
After having a few guests at luncheon Sunday, I went to the dedication of the Josephine and Henry Morgenthau Home, which is the new Bronx house on Pelham Parkway. The old Bronx house was founded by Mr. and Mrs. Henry Morgenthau Sr. Mrs. Morgenthau, because of her love of music, established the music school, which has become one of the vital activities of Bronx House.
As I listened to the reports and speeches, I could almost see Mr. and Mrs. Morgenthau Sr. How proud they would have been of these new achievements! And I think they would have been especially proud of their grandson, Henry Morgenthau III, who has retained an interest in this work and presided at Sunday's meeting.
It seemed to me that most of the people active in this project are young, and it was encouraging that they had been able to accomplish so much. The money-raising and the building and equipping of the new cultural and recreational center was no small undertaking.
The center is not as yet completed, for there is painting and decorating to be done and much modern equipment is still needed, but the building is there and I had the feeling that the rest of it would slowly materialize.
Mr. and Mrs.Robert Morgenthau and Dr. Joan Morgenthau also were present, as well as many others who know and loved Mr. and Mrs. Morgenthau Sr.
In the evening the Japanese film, "The Magnificent Seven,"1 which received the Lion of St. Mark's prize at the Venetian Film Festival this past summer, was shown for the benefit of the International Rescue Committee.
Joshua Logan, the noted director-producer, brought the film to the attention of Columbia Pictures, which is showing it in this country.
It is a black and white picture and the Japanese director is Akira Kurosawa, whose last film shown in this country was "Rasho-MonRashomon," which received the Academy Award.
I found the picture, like so many Japanese films, rather blood-thirstybloodthirsty, but it certainly held my interest. I feel sure it will have great success, because the photography is very beautiful.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
