
                  
                     NEW YORK.—Our hosts who met us at Sacramento last Friday represented the group in that city working for the American Association for the United Nations. They have never formed themselves into a chapter, but simply affiliated themselves with all the organizations that have an interest in the United Nations to celebrate U.N. Day. They discussed with me the need for a chapter and promised me they would form one immediately and notify our San Francisco headquarters, which I hope they will do.
They were able to drive the car near to the plane so we did not get as wet in the storm as I anticipated. The audience proved good at the evening meeting and the sponsors seemed satisfied. The reception given afterwards by the U.N. group was very well attended and some Democratic women's groups also participated in it, so that I think everyone who had a special desire to see me had the opportunity to do so.
It was past midnight, however, when we finally got to bed and we had to be up at 6:00, as my secretary, Miss Maureen Corr, was making a train to San Francisco on Saturday morning to spend the day with some friends and I was flying back to Los Angeles hoping to spend a very busy day seeing a great many friends. Fortunately, while the rain was still coming down in sheets, the fog did not keep me from flying and I got into Los Angeles only a few minutes late.
I managed to see a young man who has struggled hard to get an education largely by service in the U.S. Army. I had met him in various parts of the world, but he is now at last on his way to a teaching position in the Los Angeles schools.
My old friends from Beacon, N.Y., Mr. and Mrs. Charles McIlwraith, and their two children came up from San Diego to lunch with Mrs. Hershey Martin and me, and we had a very pleasant reunion. After lunch Mr. and Mrs. Ted Lawson picked me up and drove me out to their new home where I had a chance to see their children.
After my return my great-granddaughter, Julianna, was brought over by her mother to see me, and later Mrs. AlonzoAlphonzo Bell and Mr. and Mrs. Martin Lencer and their young son, who is named after my husband, all came to tea. My only disappointment was that I did not see my three grandchildren who live in Pasadena, but their mother felt the fog was too heavy to drive in.
In the evening Mr. and Mrs. Martin and I went over to the Ambassador, had dinner, and watched a very delightful show. Then at 6:26 on Sunday morning we picked up Miss Corr at her little hotel nearby where she had arrived after various delays at 2:00 A.M.a.m. and then we were off again to arrive in San Antonio at 2:45, only a few minutes late. The trip was smooth and very pleasant. We were met at the airport by a delegation including the mayor, Mrs. Maury Maverick, and various members of the sponsoring committee.
On Sunday we proceded proceeded to Dallas, where we caught the overnight plane to New York.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
