
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I saw an amusing, very light play last week called "The Marriage-Go-Round." Claudette Colbert is excellent in her role, but the play itself is practically nonexistent. Nevertheless, there are many good laughs and Charles Boyer does a good piece of acting.
So far this season I have seen only one play, Eugene O'Neill's "A Touch of the Poet," that I thought had any real substance. The Broadway plays are probably just what the tired businessman needs for entertainment, but those I have seen have shown no touch of greatness. They do, however, provide light and amusing evenings.
A copy of the 1959 "Photo Maxima" came to my desk the other day. This is a delightful collection of photographs, the originals of which will be exhibited for two months at International House here in New York City beginning November 21. I think anyone would enjoy having a copy.
The Pan-American Coffee Bureau each year uses the holiday seasons to alert everyone in the country to the dangers of highway accidents. One of its purposes, of course, is to augment the consumption of coffee, but this is really only a byproduct of a campaign that has great value for all of us.
This drive is made specifically during the Christmas and New Year holidays, but I think it is just as necessary at Thanksgiving. The roads then may be in a little better condition than during the  Christmas-New Year period, but the same rules apply, nevertheless.
Traffic deaths during the first nine months of this year dropped six percent as compared with the same period in 1957. But it may be surprising to know that if we run true to form during the coming year, automobile accidents will kill more Americans between the ages of one year and 44 than will die from either heart disease or cancer.
One person will be killed every 14 minutes and one will be injured every 23 seconds in motor accidents. This means that the highway death toll is expected to run to 37,000, with injuries to well over a million persons and property damage costing about two billion dollars.
Safety groups are recommending five rules, which I give you here in the hope they may save some lives:
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
