
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —Last Tuesday evening, Miss Thompson and I drove from Hyde Park over to Millbrook, N.Y., where I spoke at a conference at Bennett Junior College. We enjoyed dining with Miss Carrol, the president of the college, and with her sister, the faculty adviser and three members of the student committee who were organizing the conference.
They had chosen as their subject "Widening Our Horizons." Very wisely, they are looking at these horizons from the point of view of their own activities—literary, artistic and academic—as well as from the point of view of national and international situations.
After my talk, there was only one question, which was about my impressions of the Russian delegation at the London meeting of the United Nations. Then we went to the main student building, where I met many of the faculty and students. I was interested to find that the college has girls from many different sections of the United States, a few from Puerto Rico, and some from South American countries.
Wednesday morning, I came down to New York. After keeping a few appointments at my office, I took a plane from Newark for Louisville, Ky., where the Women's Action Committee for Lasting Peace was holding a conference. I had no business going to Louisville at this time because I have been extremely busy at home, but one lets oneself be persuaded and, when the time comes, willy-nilly one must go. On arrival, I had very little time before I had to make my speech.
The next day, Thursday, I flew back to New York. In the evening, I joined Mr. and Mrs. Henry Morgenthau, Jr., and some friends of theirs, who were my guests at the annual African dance festival at Carnegie Hall. I think it was done in a much more professional style this year, with less waiting around and much closer following of the schedule.
Today has been a succession of appointments, one following closely upon another. It will end this evening with my speaking at an institute which the United States Student Assembly has arranged at the New School for Social Research.
This organization sent a representative to the World Youth meeting in London and then on to Russia, so I think they have a very keen sense of the situation in Europe and are most anxious to pass along to their student groups in the various colleges a sense of real responsibility in thinking through the problems of the future.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1946, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
