
                  
                     WILMINGTON, Ohio.—I went to the Willard Galleries in New York Wednesday to see an exhibition "of symbolical art with related text from various traditions, ancient, medieval and modern art, conceived and prepared by Dorothy Norman."
This is a most interesting approach, and it was fascinating to see the relation between certain mythological concepts in the past and their development in different ways, through so many peoples, down to our life today.
The exhibition is being circulated by the American Federation of Arts with a catalogue which is fully illustrated and is one that many of us will want to have permanently in our libraries.
I also attended a lunch at the United Nations to hear of the progress made in the La Hermosa (meaning The Beautiful) project, which is a church and community center to be placed between 110 and 111th Streets on the northwest corner of Fifth Avenue facing the park. This project was inspired by a small Protestant Puerto Rican community belonging to the Disciples of Christ who find themselves among the approximately 600,000 Puerto Ricans now living in New York City.
The project grew out of the fact that this small group had taken an old shack in Harlem some 15 years ago and converted it into a small church and community center which the members called La Hermosa. When a new housing project threatened to engulf their church, the new project was born with the aid of the Christian church throughout the country, plus a number of individuals who thought that anything so courageously named in the area where Harlem and the Puerto Rican communities meet should not be allowed to die.
They have acquired their land and now will start to raise the $750,000 needed to build. Some of the money is already in sight and everyone in the city will wish them well.
I had a double pleasure the other night. I spoke to District 65 of the Retail Wholesale Department Store Union, AFL-CIO. It holds a Brotherhood Rally every year during Brotherhood Week, since it is a union kept constantly conscious of brotherhood by a membership drawn from many nationalities.
Thurgood Marshall, the Honorable Manuel Gomez and I had the opportunity of speaking on the city, the national, and the international aspects of the efforts to bring about the reality of brotherhood. We also saw a number of excellent entertainers who added much to the pleasure of the evening.
I was able to get to Carnegie Hall later for the Pension Fund Benefit Concert given by the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, with Bruno Walter conducting. It was a beautiful concert, and at the end the conductor received a long-drawn-out ovation.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
