
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —The other night, we had the good fortune to see the Old Vic Company's presentation of "Henry IV, Part I." I am one of those benighted people who do not always enjoy Shakespeare, but this performance was outstanding and no one could help enjoying every minute of it.
We went back to the country late Wednesday afternoon. I begin to understand how one becomes a slave to one's dog, for Fala was so pleased to see us and begged so insistently to go for a walk in the woods that, before we sat down to dinner, I took him for the mile-and-a-half walk that he and I usually take in the morning! Suddenly, on one of the upper roads, I saw two children on two white horses and they made the prettiest picture against the dark green of the evergreen trees in the failing light.
There still seems to be some confusion in people's minds as to how they can help UNRRA with its emergency food efforts. I think one way which Director Fiorello La Guardia is urging is that every community collect money which they would otherwise spend on food for themselves and send it in to him. With this, he can buy such things as are most easily shipped and of most value to starving people in different parts of the world. These things may not all be bought in this country, but they will reach their destination. And this is the quickest and most economical way of getting food to various parts of the world.
There is another organization called The Cooperative for American Remittances forto Europe, at 50 Broad Street, New York City. This is a non-profitnon profit organization of which Gen. William H. Haskell is executive director. The plan is approved by President Truman, and is sponsored by the Department of State and Department of Agriculture. The 24 member organizations cover practically all faiths and nationalities concerned with foreign relief.
You may buy packages costing $15, which are known as ten-in-one packages. Three million of these are already in Europe, because they were originally sent over to be used by our troops in combat. They are particularly valuable because the fuel problem in Europe is great and these packages contain pre-cooked food.
In addition to foodstuffs which provide approximately 60 adequate meals, they include items such as sugar, candy bars, cocoa and coffee powders, preserved butter and ham, as well as soap and cigarettes. The food is varied so as to provide five different menus.
You send in the address and name of the person to whom you wish the package delivered and, when the recipient gets it, you will receive a signed receipt. There are still some areas where deliveries are not being made, but all areas are rapidly being opened up. This seems to me one of the best personal ways of getting things to individuals in Europe whom you wish to help.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1946, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
