
                  
                     KOTOR, YUGOSLAVIAKOTOR, Yugoslavia
                  —After lunch on Thursday in Sarajevo, we visited the rather gruesome museum which commemorates the secret society and the young man who shot Archduke Ferdinand of Austria and thus brought on World War I. He and his comrades are national heroes because it was a blow for freedom, but it is, as a museum, rather a depressing spot.
The Zemaljski museum was our next stop and I much enjoyed seeing the national costumes and the different family scenes in costume which were arranged in rooms which had been donated as a whole.
We visited an old mosque with some lovely old mosaics and we dined with the mayor at a small spa about fifteen minutes outside the city, which is a delightful spot at the source of the Bosnia river.
Friday morning I started out early to drive two hours to what will in another year and a half be the little Pittsburgh of Yugoslavia. There is a good coal mine and iron ore nearby. They are already in production and producing three times as much as before the war. When they are through construction, they hope to produce eight times as much. Much of their structural material is produced in Yugoslavia but their equipment has come from four different sources, Continental in Pittsburgh, Westinghouse, Belgium and German reparations.
The manager pointed to one plant and said: "We bought that before the War from the Krupps in Germany, then the Germans came and occupied and took the whole building back to Germany and erected it there. Now it has come back to us as reparations and we have errectederected it here for the third time".."
Slowly the way these plants are going to function is clearing up for me. When I was told in Belgrade that they would be run by workers' councils, I didn't see how it would be possible but I find that experts are employed to run the plant and they report to the workers' council which makes a little more sense.
I lunched with members of the Council and they asked me about our social security system and the discrimination against the Negroes in the United States, but this time Senator McCarthy did not come up!
I met two American engineers whom the plant employs, and as usual it gave me a warm feeling to meet my fellow countrymen so far away from home.

