
                  
                     MEEKER, Colo.
                  —This has been a busy day. I had to go to town early to file my column because we had planned a long ride up a canyon to a point where we got on our horses. Some of the horses went up by trailer, others were ridden up early by the boys on the ranch.
Last year, I took a walk with Minnewa some distance up the same canyon but, of course, we could not begin to go as far as we could go on horseback.
It was perfectly beautiful—first down through the meadows close to the River, then higher and higher up, with rugged mountains rising above the trees.
Most of our mountains are covered with trees, but here and there sheer rock rises, which is perfectly beautiful. And the clouds and the sunlight make wonderful shadows on the green. I think the changing colors and shadows are quite lovely here. Last night at sunset the hills far in the distance were purple and then dark green, shading into lighter green.
I enjoy riding the mountain trails, though I confess I am constantly amazed at the wonderful training of the horses. They know when to go slowly and pick their way; they are particularly careful of the loose stones and rocks where they might slide; and they know where to make up time and go a little faster.
I have a horse that is very sure-footed but a bit slow. However, he follows very well and he likes to follow one particular horse and will do exactly what that horse does—jog, trot, canter, or walk, which last is, of course, what one does most of the time.
I like all his gaits except his canter. I find that is rather pounding, though I know perfectly well it is partly my fault. Nevertheless, I like to fool myself into thinking he has a hard canter. I am improving, however, for this morning's ride was a three-hour journey and it did not even tire me.
Our lunch was delicious when we got back to the picnic area.
One of the pleasant things on this trip to Elliott's ranch has been the chance to see Senator and Mrs. Fulbright out here. They are guests of Mr. and Mrs. Al White, who gave the picnic today and so they went with us on the ride up the canyon.
I have always admired Senator Fulbright from afar, but it is a great pleasure to get to know him a little better. And his wife is just as charming as I have always thought her to be. Getting to know people away from Washington is very pleasant, I think, because then if one meets again in a more formal atmosphere one has the background and sense of intimacy that only can come from contacts in the out-of-doors and in the leisurely summer atmosphere.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
