
                  
                     LUBBOCK, Texasmissingerpp, Wednesday.—I notice that in this part of the world television seems to be a complete necessity. We have not been in a single room where we have not found a television set all ready for use. I haven't had time to turn it on, but it does point to the fact that Texans and their visitors must have time to watch television and watch it a great deal.
Perhaps they even depend a little more on radio and television for news than on their newspapers. For in some places the news in the papers is largely local, with comparatively little on questions of national or international interest.
It was interesting to turn on the radio Tuesday morning and hear that the coldest weather reported in this area registered 28, four points below freezing, and in most places it was above freezing. In spite of that by evening I find my fur jacket is comfortable, perhaps because we had rain in Houston and it was grey and somewhat windy when we arrived in Lubbock Monday night.
This trip, being one in behalf of organization for the American Association for the United Nations, we were very pleased to find that there was much less tension in Houston than last year.
The elections to the school board were successfully carried through and there is a more liberal attitude expressed on the board. Of course, some newspapers write almost daily, or reprint almost daily, articles against the United Nations, but curiously enough that seems to have very little effect on the people.
I would say that as yet, however, there is not sufficient cooperation among the organizations that cover great masses of people, such as labor and farm groups.
We began our day in Houston at a press conference at nine A.M.a.m., followed by a workshop from 10 to 11:30 and a luncheon from 12 to 2:30. At the workshop were heads of other organizations cooperating with the AAUN, since an important point of their programs is support of the United Nations.
At the luncheon we discussed the role of the United States in the U.N., the importance of American leadership in the U.N., and the possibility of actively, through our private contacts and friendships as more and more of our citizens serve on the delegations at the U.N., creating friendly feelings among other delegates to be carried back to far areas of the world.
With 76 nations represented in the U.N., many of them having come into being since the world organization was formed 11 years ago, it is increasingly important for these warm, personal contacts—which can mean so much in understanding our policies—to be formed among the representatives on the various delegations.
I think it also important that the policies of the great nations be made simple and clear, so that the chance of misunderstanding is minimized.
We left Houston by plane at 3:45 in the afternoon for Lubbock, but we did not arrive until about 8:30. Here we finally rejoined Mr. Clark Eichelberger, who spent some time in Portland, Ore., and had expected to meet us in Houston. Because of delays, however, he missed all his connections and was lucky to arrive in Lubbock just two hours before we did.
We had to report on our separate meetings and discuss the plans for the day with our hosts here, but we still had a long and welcome night's rest. Now another press conference is scheduled to take place Tuesday morning.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
