
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —A great many people no doubt will be waiting to see what effect the talks between Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru of India and President Eisenhower will have in determining the future relations between their two countries and in the struggle for peace in the world.
It is hoped that by this time certain feelings of misunderstanding in the minds of these two men have vanished and have been replaced by greater confidence in the objectives of each nation.
When the Prime Minister leaves the United States, the millions of people in Asia and the Near East will be anxious to learn of his impressions gained in the talks with the President. I hope they will bring greater faith in the United States in those parts of the world.
The subject of a New York Times editorial entitled "More Drift in Egypt" certainly should have been included in the discussion between the two leaders, for it is obvious we cannot afford continued drifting of policy on the Near East.
It is shortsighted of President Gamal Abdel Nasser to refuse the use of British and French salvage ships to finish the job of clearing the Suez Canal. They have done a good job at the canal's northern end, but unless the remainder of the canal, now blocked by Egyptian sabotage, is cleared, what has been done in the one area will have little value.
If it is true, as stated in the Times editorial, that the Egyptian government is preparing new rules for blacklisting foreign ships trading with Israel, then no real improvement has been brought about in the Arab-Israel situation or even on the thinking on the Suez Canal.
The canal, it must be remembered is an international waterway and Egypt has no more right to make rules about what ships should go through than has any other nation. It may be that the Egyptians are thinking of themselves as militarily victorious when in reality they were humiliatingly defeated by Israel and Great Britain and France.
The University of Michigan has just been given land and money to establish a Dearborn center. As Dr. Harlan Hatcher, president of the university describes it, this sounds like a most interesting experiment.
It will be the first major opportunity provided by the university to develop cooperative education by combining classrooms with shop instruction and with practical work in industry.
For us in the United States, this ought to be an experiment of very great interest and should attract many persons who are interested in getting an education and, at the same time, moving forward in their business lives.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
