
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —The situation that exists between this country and Great Britain deserves very serious consideration. We cannot afford, no matter where the blame lies, to hand to the Soviet Union the advantage of a rift among the Western allies, particularly between Great Britain and ourselves. Any differences between our two countries are more in the nature of a family quarrel but family quarrels can become serious, and it is essential that this one be brought to an end as quickly as possible.
The strongest argument for presenting a united front is that only with a united front will we have strength enough to insist on peaceful settlements. If it is known that, whatever we and our allies do, we will all act together, those opposed to us are much less apt to be tempted to take each of us on singly and defeat us.
I have felt all along that the Geneva Conference might better have been in the UNU.N., but our objective was probably to get away from the veto of the Soviet Union in the Security Council. That veto, however, exists nonetheless in Geneva, and lack of unity on the part of the Western allies makes it even more effective.
Whenever uranium is found in any vicinity, I suppose prospectors turn up on every hand, but I am glad they are going to be barred from the Statestate parks, for the beauty of the parks would soon be marred by digging in every direction. I should think the park administration could make a survey to find out if there are any extensive uranium deposits which would require preservation of an area for possible future use of the valuable mineral. The land is owned by the Statestate and it seems to me that whatever is found there should continue to be Statestate property.
I was interested in a recent newspaper story about a young student named Schwartz who telephoned a New York City paper to ask for help in getting rid of two armadillos. My acquaintance with armadillos is very slight. They were the only four-legged animals except a goat that were introduced to me by our men stationed on the Galapagos Islands in 1944 as being tenants of those barren islands. They did not strike me as very attractive pets but they were quite tame and were of great interest to our men. The problems which assail Mr. Schwartz with his charges, now that they have produced seven young, were not present with the Army and Navy on Galapagos because there was plenty of food available, since so many men had to be fed every day.
I have great sympathy with the difficulties of the young owner of the armadillos. I doubt if any individual will take them over. However, there must be a zoo somewhere which lacks such treasures, and I hope the newspaper story will find them a home, for I realize that Mr. Schwartz would not like to have to kill them.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
