
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Monday
                  —The situation on the bill outlawing the Communist Party, which the Senate passed 85 to 0 is very amusing. The vote was 85 to 0 because, of course, nobody wished to appear in favor of the Communist Party. On the other hand the Administration, which feels it has a much better way of dealing with the situation than having the party outlawed, is very much opposed to the bill—and there is again a struggle between two factions in the Republican Party.
This is one of those things that will confuse the people very much. Many of them won't bother to read the whole explanation and they will wonder why the Administration is opposed to a bill for which all the Republican Senators voted. It is even said that ex-President Hoover is opposed to this legislation.
I was much distressed to hear that Leo Casey, a former New York trooper whom my husband and I knew and liked for many years, had died in a motor accident. When we first knew him, he was only 18 years old, handsome and very athletic. He was assigned to go with us on one of our trips around the state, and he used to play ball with our boys in the evenings.
The following year he had an accident on his motorcycle, and his back was broken. From that time on, Leo Casey of Syracuse was paralyzed from his chest down. He allowed his story to be written up during World War II as a help to boys in the service who had to face a similar ordeal, and he took no money for the story as it was published because he said he wished it to be a gift, in the hope that he could help others.
He managed to live a fairly full life and to do an extraordinary amount for himself. Both my husband and I always admired him, and I will never forget how anxious he was to go to the hospitals and help anyone he could who was suffering as he had suffered. I am glad that his end came suddenly, for I am sure he would rather have had it that way. I shall miss seeing him, however, as I always saw him whenever I went to Syracuse.
I have been asked to mention that there is a training school for leader dogs for the blind at Rochester, Michigan. The school is supported by voluntary contributions but a blind applicant who attends the school is asked to pay $150 at his convenience. This is for a month's tuition, but the actual cost of adequate training for a blind master and his leader dog is $1,250. The school sounds very adequate.
There is a shortage of dogs for the blind in this country. The dogs, of course, go through a great deal longer training than the month which is given them with their future masters. Suitable dogs, I should think, could be found in many dog pounds throughout the country, and I hope that a careful search is being made there, as it would be a fine thing to give suitable homeless dogs this training.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
