
                  
                     FORT COLLINS, COLOFORT COLLINS, Colo..—Just before leaving Hyde Park on this trip, I had the pleasure of having as luncheon guests four young men who are here from Europe on a friendship tour arranged by Mr. Harry W. Morgan. They represent Switzerland, Sweden, Italy and Holland, and despite their youth each of them has achieved considerable prominence in his chosen field of activity, in his own country.
They are all predominantly interested in sports. At least, this is true if you can classify an airplane pilot as being engaged in a sport, and it has always seemed to me that flying can be considered not only a way to make a living, but a pretty sporting way to live. For the oldest one of the group is a Swiss pilot—and ever since I came into the Geneva airport in a snowstorm one December, I have felt that the skill needed to fly in that mountainous country makes that occupation both sporting and hazardous.
The Italian, who is about the same age as the pilot, is an auto racer. He was delighted to learn that I own a little Fiat sports car, and was most amused when I told him I like it because it makes me feel as if I were racing, though my speedometer reads only 35 to 40 miles an hour!
The Dutch boy is only 22, and is a rowing champion. That is a sport about which I know something, as several of my own sons rowed while in College. It is a fine sport, and excellent training for endurance and cooperation with others.
The Swedish boy, the youngest of the group, is only 20, but is already a champion bicycle rider and skier. This combination of choices certainly enables him to keep active throughout the four seasons of the year.
I'm sure each of these four young visitors will find plenty of Americans, in all age groups, eager to exchange ideas about the particular interests they will have in common.
I am sorry that Premier Khrushchev has insisted on changing the proposed summit meeting at the UNU.N. Security Council to a non-summit discussion of the Middle East problem in the UNU.N. General Assembly, but I am not altogether surprised.
Very evidently, Mr. Khrushchev has more confidence in informal talks between a few top leaders than he has in discussions including the representatives of the smaller nations. We wanted a Security Council meeting with all 11 member-nations represented because we believed our position would get more support that way. By transferring the discussion to the much larger General Assembly, Mr. Khrushchev has so lengthened the course of the proceedings that he can well say he cannot spare the time to attend in person.
My own hope still is that some kind of high-level meeting may be arranged, within the framework of the UNU.N.. Whether that meeting takes place quite privately in Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold's office, or—as Secretary of State John Foster Dulles' remarks at his recent press conference seemed to suggest—wherever and whenever certain heads of state wish to talk things over, seems relatively unimportant.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
