
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —For a day of rest, yesterday was fairly busy! At 1 o'clock, I lunched with a group of representatives of amalgamated workers at the Hudson Shore Labor School. They had been discussing domestic questions and the role of the citizen. I gathered from the conversation that there was an increasing awareness among the women workers of the practical methods by which organized workers can register their wishes with their representatives in both the Sstate and the national Government.
I did not leave them until nearly 3:30, when I drove a little farther up the road and stopped for a few minutes to see the boys at Wiltwyck School.
Then, I drove on to Ulster Park where, in a grove of trees, a rally of the Democrats of the neighborhood was being held. Young Mayor Erastus Corning of Albany, candidate for Lieutenant-Governor, made a good speech. And, wonder of wonders, though he knew the local question over which feeling runs high in Kingston—"Are we to have a bridge across the Hudson River?"—he still did not promise the bridge.
He reminded the gathering that Governor Dewey had vetoed the bill and that their representative in Albany was promising them that, at the next session, the bill would pass and then Governor Dewey would sign it! He assured them that he understood the need, both for the city of Kingston and the surrounding rural area and for the people across the river, for a bridge at that point. And I think they felt his sincere desire to help them and accepted his pledge to do so if the opportunity comes his way.
Various other candidates also spoke. It was a good meeting and one that denoted unusual interest in this campaign. Similar meetings are being held all over our country, and they are typical of our democratic procedure.
I had to pay two visits on the way home, and so it was after 6 o'clock before I found myself being greeted by a little black dog who quite evidently thought I had been gone much too long and who complained all evening because of my desertion. To make up for it, I got up early this morning so he could have a walk before we started for New York City. This is the first time that I have brought Fala down to the city since last spring, and I am sure the streets are not going to be alluring to him!
I have started my Christmas shopping. Have you? I haven't seen any reminders that we should shop early, perhaps because there isn't going to be very much that we can buy this Christmas. But just for that reason, I thought I had better begin early and find what I could and get it wrapped and shipped off to different parts of the country. I have such a scattered family nowadays that, if I don't think far ahead, things might not reach them. And in addition, nobody knows how long the United Nations Assembly will last and, while it lasts, there will be no time for me to do any shopping or wrapping!
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1946, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
