
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Thursday
                  —In the course of the last few days, I have been called on the telephone all the way from Washington, D. CD.C., to be asked about two seemingly unimportant things!
One—did I know that my name was left out of the summer Social Register? This is, of course, one of those things which I should think very few people would be interested in, or would even notice.
It so happens that I have only one permanent address. My home is in Hyde Park, and that address was listed in the winter edition of the Social Register. It is carefully stated by the Social Register Association that, when only one address is given and there is no change for the summer, it will not be listed again in the summer edition.
I do have an apartment in New York City, and when I have to be in the city, that is where I stay. But it is not my permanent home and I do not think it necessary to list that address in the Social Register. But, of course, such a simple explanation would never cross the minds of those who make much out of nothing.
The second thing about which I was phoned is equally unimportant. Apparently some people, casting around for something to write about, became excited over the fact that a horse called Here's How, which was for a short time in the stables at Fort Myer allotted to the use of the President, is now being sold by the Army. I am not actually sure that we ever owned Here's How. I think we merely tried him out among other horses for a time.
The horse that I rode for years was called Dot. She belonged to me for a number of years before I went to Washington and was turned out to pasture long before she died. The horse that I sometimes rode belonged to my son. He was a hunter and his name was Badger. He, too, is buried up here.
But I can lay no claim to Here's How. Though I may have been on his back once or twice, I hardly think so. Long before I left Washington, I had practically given up riding because I could not get accustomed to any horse except the one I had ridden for years and for whom I had a real affection.
Rumors, rumors—how they fly! I also see it stated that the doctors have told me to slow up or something dire will happen. I have only one doctor and I think he would be very much surprised to be told that he had given any such advice!
I like being in the country and it seems to agree with me very well. I feel extremely healthy, not in need of any doctor's advice at the moment. I sometimes wonder whether some people would be pleased if a number of my activities had to be curtailed. For their comfort I will say that, even though no doctor has given me any advice, I find it very pleasant to spend a few free, quiet moments whenever I have the opportunity.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1947, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
