
                  
                     FAYETTEVILLE, Ark., Wednesday.—We arrived in Fort Smith, Arkansas, Tuesday morning, and had a most enjoyable breakfast before setting out on our drive to Fayetteville. Somehow nothing seems quite right until one has had breakfast. Once my orange juice and tea and toast have been consumed, I feel like a new person.
We had grey skies overhead but we were in the Ozark country and the views were beautiful all the way. Two young faculty couples met us and they had started on their way at 5:00 A.M. which made us feel really guilty. Dr. and Mrs. Kraemer and Mr. and Mrs. Hantz were delightful companions and I marvelled that they could be so pleasant when we had made them get up so early.
High up on a hill as we entered Fayetteville we saw the old Fulbright home. The Senator has certainly earned for himself great appreciation in his hometown and that is often the most difficult place to gain recognition. The University of Arkansas was one of the first Southern universities to take advantage of the Fulbright scholarships and now they have somewhere around 30 foreign students. They come from South America, India, Germany and France and other countries and they feel they contribute a good deal to the enrichment of the knowledge gained by other students.
The student body is drawn largely from the State of Arkansas, a few from southern Missouri, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama, and a scattering from all the other states, including the East. But they feel that their foreign students are a good nucleus through which the other young people add to their vision and understanding of the world.
We are in one of the girls' dormitories and we certainly have a charming and comfortable place in which to stay. In the early days, they tell us, the student body lived largely in the homes of the towns-peopletownspeople but now they are much better off, for they have their own dormitories on the campus. In fact, there seems to be a great deal of building on the campus. They have a fine art center and a beautiful library, a new law school, and though I am sure there are always things that need to be added in an institution of this kind, they seem on the whole to have a very adequate set-upsetup.
I was greeted on arrival by a letter which says in part: "You have a double who lives here in this city. At least she looks so like your picture that people have mistaken her for you." My correspondent warns me that the lady has heart trouble but I think she suggests that I would like to meet "my double" and I shall certainly try to do so while I am here.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
