
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday
                  —I found Senator Vandenberg's statement on our foreign policy particularly interesting. It strengthens us very much with the rest of the world when they realize that our policy will be supported no matter which political party may be in power and regardless of any change in the Administration.
I hope very much that the next meeting on peace treaties may actually bring about some settlements. Keeping armies in Europe and not letting people return to normal living is unhealthy and detrimental to their recovery.
Certain agreements made in the past may have to be revised in the light of new circumstances. For instance, enough industry must be allowed in Germany so that she will not have to count on subsidies from other countries to live. The heavily industrial Ruhr area must function—and function quickly and effectively—but in the interests of the whole of Europe, not in the interests of Germany alone and certainly not in the interests of the old private industrial groups.
I find myself hoping for a better basic understanding among the great powers. We should be able to accept the fact that none of us is interested in any further individual aggrandizement, but only in building joint strength for peace through the United Nations.
Tuesday night, I had the pleasure of attending a performance of "Call Me Mister." This is a GI show, and even the girls in it were connected with the armed services in some way. Melvyn Douglas and Herman Levin certainly have presented a show which gives one an entertaining evening. Here and there are some words and scenes of serious import, but they go down easily. Harold Rome, who wrote the music and the lyrics, has done a delightful job, as usual.

                  Betty Garrett's performance is outstanding. And it will be a long time before we hear any songs much better than "The Red Ball Express" and "The Face on the Dime." The cast, through Mr. Rome, presented me with the original of the latter song, which will take its place in the Hyde Park library along with so many other tributes to my husband.
Yesterday morning, I called for ex-Senator Townsend of Delaware and drove him to Hyde Park. I showed him around our place. When he casually mentioned that he grew 1500 acres of lima beans, I realized that our problems were very small. But he seemed to like our woods and was much interested in my husband's Christmas tree plantations. He left us after luncheon.
In the evening, I went to have supper at the Vassar Alumnae House, and then to give the Helen Kenyon lecture. After the lecture, we all went over to the old gymnasium building and I answered questions for three-quarters of an hour.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1946, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
