
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —Easter is the time of our greatest rejoicing and promise in the Christian religion and one can not but hope that, as spring brings new life again all around us, new hope will come to the troubled world. All men grow weary in their efforts; but at this season perhaps they will take up their burdens again with greater hope, and may something of the hope in nature permeate even the dealings on the battlefield and in diplomatic circles.
Friday night I went down to our local radio station to speak on their weekly press interview. I have been unfortunate enough to pick up what seems to be a very prevalent virus, and I was very doubtful if my voice would hold out during the interview and whether they would be able to adjust the radio so I could be heard. Apparently they managed it, but I cannot help wondering how it sounded. I find these bugs unfortunately do not leave you as quickly as you wish they would; and in spite of taking the most modern pills and inhaling benzoin at intervals, I am still a little nervous about what I will sound like on my television program.
I so rarely have to change any plans that when I decided it probably would be impossible for me to make a speech on Monday I completely upset the group that expected me. I explained that I was not really ill, but seemed to have lost my voice. The group nevertheless insisted that, voice or no voice, I appear! Of course I realize that where someone is usually as well as I am and practically never has to change a date unexpectedly, it is very upsetting to have me give out at the last minute. I hope, however, that they will be prepared to have a silent speaker on their hands.
My house is full of guests. Fortunately, they are the kind of guests who can look after themselves very successfully, and some of them will stay on when I go to New York City for my program.
Sir Gladwyn Jebb came up on Saturday and spent the night here. We had a buffet supper before he went to speak for the Council on World Affairs in Poughkeepsie. Sir Gladwyn had been scheduled to appear earlier in the year, but the meeting had been postponed because of a bad winter storm plus an emergency call which kept him at a Security Council meeting in New York. I had hoped to introduce him last night, but thought I had better be wise and not go out for fear of spreading my own germs and acquiring new ones.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1951, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
