
                  
                     NEW YORK.—The visit of Ghana's Prime Minister, Dr. Kwame NkrumanNkrumah, to this country has been important for so many of our American citizens, particularly those in New York, because it has given them pride in being members of the Negro race and in one of their own who is building his country in its difficult period of infancy.
In New York, this pride was shown the other day when the American Committee on Africa joined with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the National Urban League in sponsoring a dinner for the Prime Minister.
The American Committee on Africa has been doing good work in helping the natives in South Africa and in trying to give all of us a clearer understanding of the situations in the countries that are now, or soon will be, seeking their freedom.
This committee has the support of many distinguished citizens and I am sure the general public will be interested in its work.
Since this is the centenary year of Theodore Roosevelt's birth, many things, great and small, are being done in his memory. One of the small things has come to my attention.
The Theodore Roosevelt High School in Chicago followed out a plan, initiated by Sidney Teller, for interchanging flags between that school and a high school in Israel.
This also included a school assembly at which the Israel teacher of geography gave a lecture on the United States and the students read compositions on the economy of the U.S., on its settlement and Westward expansion. Much was said, too, about the development of friendly ties between the youth of Israel and of the U.S.
An interesting film on U.S. manufacturing was shown and books dealing with this country were put on exhibition. Much of this material was furnished by the American Consulate in Jerusalem—all done in memory of Theodore Roosevelt.
I have a letter which I here quote in part. It comes from Fort Wayne, Ind., and is typical of the feelings of many people in this country. The gentleman says:
"I find impossible to believe in the cause of the American troops in Lebanon, but since I am an American, I am bound by this action.
"Your husband said: `No dictator in history has ever dared to run the gantletgauntlet of a really free election.' Why can't the ballot settle these troubles?"
It will indeed be a happy day for all of us when differences between nations can be settled by votes and nobody resorts to force.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
