
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N.Y., Monday
                  .—On Decoration Day at Hyde Park, as in every other place throughout the country, the cemeteries are visited by the patriotic organizations and the graves of the soldiers are decorated. Many families also take this day as one remembrance to their own loved ones.
The Roosevelt Home Club of Hyde Park and other local organizations jointly hold a service on Memorial Day. The service takes place in the rose garden near my husband's grave, and is usually attended by many of his old friends and associates.
This year Senator and Mrs. Herbert H. Lehman will be with us. The Senator will give the memorial address. It was a very beautiful service because of the peace and serenity of the surroundings. The high hedge around the rose garden seems to shut out the world and all its troubles. One can think of the past with loving memory and of the future with greater expectation.
I hope that throughout our country on this Memorial Day all of us, particularly those who served in World War II, will be thinking of how their country can avoid another war. It is true that we must be strong—weak people are always vulnerable. It is not enough, however, to be strong in a military and economic way, we must be strong spiritually and morally. The struggle against forces of Communism in the USSR is not purely to be won by material strength. I believe that the young people in the world today, even those in Russia itself, want peace.
There is really no basic ill will among the people of the world. There is fear which breeds suspicion. This is largely created by governments—often out of a sense of a deep responsibility to protect their own people. If the truth were allowed to flow freely among the peoples of the world I do not think there would be another war.
No one expects that we can cease to have misunderstandings; that we can change human nature over night and stop all greed and jealousies, but, by making full use of the United Nations we can minimize the results of the weaknesses, inherent in human nature, and gradually develop into a better human race.
Let us join in reverence to those who have saved our country and our freedom in the past. Let us pray for wisdom and courage; that we may be given guidance and patience to help the world reach the high ideals that must be achieved if we are to live together in peace.
