
                  NEW YORK, Wednesday—Greenwich Village  in June is a very busy place, I find. Walking up to 8th Street through MacDougal Alley, your eye is caught by the display of water colors, paintings, etchings, pen and ink sketches, and if you have the time, you could get your portrait painted by several different people and even a caricature if you like to see yourself in some distorted light.
In addition, I am invited to attend a basement theatre on Thursday evening, June the 12th, and on the same evening in Webster Hall at 119 East 11th, I am invited to a beauty contest where twenty-five Powers, Conover and Thornton models will appear and "Miss Greenwich Village of 1947" will be chosen. The contest will be followed by a ball and the proceeds will send needy youngsters from the Village to one of the Greenwich House summer camps, or one of the Children's Aid Society Camps.
Unfortunately I will be kept so busy by the United Nations that I can not take advantage of all of this gaiety, but this is certainly a time of year when anyone who is seeking a little relaxation should visit Greenwich Village. weekendsweek ends through June, they can even go to the Fair, an exhibition of arts and crafts on 6th Avenue and Waverly Place.
I was very sorry that I was not able to meet while he was here, Mr. Fabian San Juan, who was one of the guerillas of the Philippines who helped to harrassharass the Japs during the war. During almost two years in mountain hide-outs, he helped Mr. and Mrs. Johnson, and Mrs. Johnson's book "Bread and Rice" tells the story. I was particularly glad to hear that Mrs. Johnson was able to arrange at the War Department for back pay for this guerilla fighter who helped Americans during the war and was loyal to the United States. I hope that this policy will be carried out with the many other men who must deserve similar treatment from the War Department.
Now that I am working again out at Lake Success, my attention is drawn to the fact that there are many people anxious to have regular news of what goes on day by day in the various commissions and committees, as well as in the councils of the United Nations. The Woodrow Wilson Foundation publishes "The United Nations News" of which Beatrice Pitney Lamb is the editor and this gives a clear, reliable summary of the activities of the United Nations and its related agencies. It appears monthly, is unofficial and therefore freer than an official publication of the United Nations could be. It is brief, simply written and unbiased. Anything appearing in its eight pages can be used by any individual or group since it is not copyrighted. The subscription rate is $3.00 a year, $2.50 for a new subscriber and $2.00 for student subscribers.
Yesterday I saw Monsieur Jacques Havet who has come over from Paris to act as an observer for UNESCO at our committee meeting.

