
                  
                     SALT LAKE CITY, UTAHSALT LAKE CITY, Tuesday
                  —Denver is a really delightful city when you get into the residential areas and I thought it had a great many charming homes. The hospitality extended us was truly Western and I marvel at how warmly strangers are welcomed and made to feel at home.
Our hosts put us on the train at 5:45 and we waved goodbye feeling that we were really leaving warm friends.
This hospitality pursued us on the train. We had a wonderful dinner and everyone was most kind and thoughtful. Unfortunately the night had settled down and we couldn't see the beautiful country we were going through, but when we went to breakfast we were in a lovely valley through which the train passed before arriving in Salt Lake City. Mountains loomed up on either side, but they had not as yet had as much snow as we had seen in Denver.
We arrived here in Salt Lake City at 8:00 a.m. and were met and taken at once to a breakfast in the Hotel Utah where all the officers and committee heads of the American Association for the United Nations were gathered. Mr. Eichelberger and I talked on organization and we progressed at 9:00 a.m. from the breakfast room to a large meeting hall where hundreds of people had gathered for a workshop on the American Association for the United Nations and the United Nations itself.
We are following the same pattern we have followed in all organization meetings so far and on this trip I am using a little bit of information which I was given the other day. Someone told me that Belgium counted 800,000 members in its Association for the United Nations last spring and the American Association for the United Nations could only claim 40,000 members at that time. It seemed unbelievable to me that this great country could not roll up a million members by next spring and so I tell this story in every speech and ask that every state try to fill its quota before I come around on another trip next spring. If we reach our million members I won't be content, as we should use our first million to pile up many more, then we are well started.
Whatever else our friends may do in Utah, we cannot accuse them of not organizing a busy day for Mr. Eichelberger and me. I left the workshop at 11:00 and went straight to the university where I talked to one group and then had to go to an overflow group where I talked for a few more minutes. Back at the hotel I first visited a luncheon which Mr. Eichelberger was attending of gentlemen only, and then I was whisked downstairs to attend a ladies luncheon. There just a few gentlemen squeezed their way in. I spoke and we had a question period which lasted until 3:00 p.m. And then I was taken over to the church offices, headquarters of the Mormon Church, and had a very pleasant visit with some of their officials.
On returning to my room I found about 14 leaders representing labor as a whole in Utah. American Federation of Labor, C.I.O.CIO, and the brotherhoods were all represented and we had a very pleasant few minutes chat after which they left so that I could write this column and try to recover my voice before I go over at 5:55 p.m. to speak on the radio and then to a small dinner after which to speak at a big public meeting.
We leave at 6:00 tomorrow morning by plane for Seattle. Don't you think this is quite a busy day and evening?
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, by UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
