
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —Some of the newspapers I saw in California treated the Hungarian coup almost as though it were an immediate cause for war. I wish that we might be a little more temperate even in the speeches made in our Senate.
I think it is quite correct to ask the United Nations to make an investigation as to whether any nation has used undue influence over the political actions of another nation, particularly when there is an occupation army in the smaller nation in question. But prejudging the results of an inquiry seems to me a mistake and it cannot help but make the inquiry, if it is decided upon, more difficult.
I wonder whether this nation really wants to repeat the history of the League of Nations by making one of the great powers withdraw from the United Nations. Judging from some of the papers I've seen and from the quotations they give from some of our statesmen, it would seem that we have forgotten that the League of Nations failed largely because we were not a part of it and because a number of other nations withdrew.
You cannot have world agreement without full participation in the discussions of international problems. I am certainly conscious of all the difficulties of reaching agreements, but I think the most important agreement of all is that all the nations remain members of the United Nations.
Otherwise, what happens is that we form alliances between nations. The world would be divided; there would be no chance of disarmament or of collective force used cooperatively against any aggressor who might wish to break the peace. I see very little hope that way for peace to grow in the world.
It seems to me that matters have come to a point where it is imperative that the heads of the great nations meet again. We are treating each individual question as a crisis and acting without reference to the basic over-alloverall situation of the world. The heads of great nations should meet and take into consideration a world view of economic, political and moral questions.
The California State Democratic Committee's dinner which I attended in Los Angeles was apparently very successful. There is one great advantage in having political parties in Los Angeles—you can offer your guests the necessary speech-making sugar-coated by entertainment from Hollywood. At the dinner, Danny Kaye, Frank Sinatra and Dinah Shore were all on hand. Even though I had to provide part of the evening's more serious entertainment, still I enjoyed the real entertainment probably more than the other guests because I have so few opportunities for hearing or seeing any of these artists.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1947, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
