
                  
                     NEW YORK.—Sen. John Kennedy is getting together an interesting group of advisers on foreign affairs, and he seems to have inspired former Gov. AverillAverell Harriman with confidence that the Kennedy-Johnson ticket will carry New York State in November and that Vice-President Richard Nixon will run behind the Republican ticket, whereas President Eisenhower ran way ahead of the state's Republicans.
I am always impressed with the courage of people to make predictions along any line, particularly along the political line, and I shall watch with interest to see how accurate these predictions are. I am making none myself. I did notice, however, that Mr. Harriman said he would work for the Democratic ticket, and I certainly will do the same.
I believe we need a change of administration. The record shows that when we have been in real trouble and need new and imaginative thinking, the Democratic party is better able to furnish new ideas and implement them.
I do not mean that the policies of the Democrats will always be correct, but it is always better to try something new when you are up against a situation where quite evidently the policies of the past have not been successful.
It is essential to have the leadership of a young and energetic President if we are going to have a program of any validity, so let us look forward to a change in November and hope that youth and wisdom will be combined.
At St. Louis last Saturday I joined Congressman A.S.J. Carnahan for an evening of campaigning. We had a press conference and a dinner, and I spent the night in a delightful trailer camp, enjoyed the scenery of the Ozarks and had breakfast with an energetic group Sunday morning. I took a noon plane back to New York.
I hope that my short visit was of some assistance to the Congressman, for he has helped the American Association for the United Nations, traveling on trips planned and financed by the AAUN with his Republican colleague, both of whom served a session in the U.N. Their joint speaking trips were educational in nature and spread knowledge of the U.N. in a way that could not have been done as effectively by anyone else.
Monday was a great day for me because my daughter and her husband, Dr. and Mrs. James Halsted, arrived from Iran. They worked in the Shiraz hospital there for two years and now have returned to take up work at the University of Kentucky next fall.
Some of their children greeted them at the ship pier, and I am sure all of them will try to see them in the next few days. With the two large collies they had with them on the boat, they will go quickly to Hyde Park and then on to Syracuse, where they will spend a short time in preparation for the assignment in Kentucky.
(Copyright, 1960, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
