
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —I think I have talked to you before about a committee of which I am chairman called the National Issues Committee, which is non-partisannonpartisan and non-profitnonprofit. We have just got out the second issue of a leaflet which we hope to get out regularly as soon as we achieve sufficient financial security to ensure several months income in advance! In this second issue I made a statement as to the purposes for which this committee has come into being and I would like to emphasize these purposes. We hope "to stimulate the rebirth of free discussion and fearless thinking in America".."
This is what we are doing now: (1) putting out the "Issue" to keep you posted on important national issues as they develop, (2) working closely with most of the great national organizations concerned with housing, education, power, farm problems, labor, health, civil rights, civil liberties, the cooperative movement, social welfare and foreign policy in order to make their combined resources of information and research available directly to you through Facts Sheets, pamphlets and other special reports, (3) helping citizens throughout the country set up their own local public information programs to stimulate the freest possible discussion of national and local issues from all points of view.
If we are successful, it will be because people throughout the country feel the need of this program and are willing to give us in small or large sums their support. I hope that all those who read this second copy of the "Issue" will find it an improvement on the first one and will feel rewarded by the information contained therein.
On Thursday evening I drove out to Sayville, Long Island, to speak to the College Women's Club. It was a longer drive than I had realized but I was happy to be able to give them an opportunity to hear about some international subjects which apparently they have been interested in for some time.
Friday night I went down to speak at the (Greenwich) Village Temple where I had not been for five years. At that time they had asked me to dedicate a Bible in memory of my husband. This was again an opportunity to speak about the United Nations, which I always welcome.
On Saturday I left for Detroit on an early afternoon plane, was met by the members of the Detroit Americans for Democratic Action and spoke at their dinner. Then I returned to New York on the night plane.
Sunday I had the rather rare pleasure of taking Mr. John Golden to the theatre. He usually takes me, so this was rather a unique occasion!
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
