
                  
                     SWAMPSCOTT, MASSACHUSETTSSWAMPSCOTT, Mass., Tuesday
                  —I want to tell you something about my few hours in Albany and my day in Rochester.
I reached Albany on Sunday in plenty of time for the special afternoon service at the Cathedral of All Saints to dedicate a United Nations flag. The Cathedral has many colored people in its congregation and they have an interracial chorus which sang at this afternoon service. The music was beautiful and the hymns carefully chosen to suit the occasion.
When the service was over, the meeting began and I stood below the transept and made my speech. Then the dean repeated the questions that came from the members of the congregation. Altogether they lasted about an hour after the service, and the meeting was very well attended. The main body of the Cathedral was filled. They tell me that their AAUN chapter in Albany is a very small one, but they are working hard and this service showed interest in the U.N.
After the service I had tea with the Mayor and took the train for Rochester, reaching there a little before 11 P.M.p.m.
In Rochester I stayed with Mr. and Mrs. Edward Curtis. Their house is on the edge of town not far from the country club and very restful and charming.
I spent a peaceful morning reading things I did not have to read and enjoying myself very much. At a quarter before twelve I was taken to a lunch for radio, TV and newspaper people where I answered questions for a half hour.
In the afternoon I spent about two hours at a meeting of university students. Although it was held on the men's campus, the girls attended also. The questions they asked were thoughtful and indicated real concern with our international problems.
At 6:30 there was a dinner at the faculty club and there I spoke briefly as it was followed by a large meeting in the auditorium. This was completely filled and I was told there were over 1000 people present. Many of them came from the public high schools and the university.
Rochester, N.Y. is one of our strongest American Association for the U.N. Chapters and they have found great stimulus in their teen-ageteenage ambassadors, boys and girls of high school age from various countries. I met some of them who came from Great Britain, Germany, Spain and Italy. They live with an American family and go to an American high school during the year that they are in Rochester. They also speak at many meetings, explaining the customs and habits of their countries and I think it has helped greatly to make both young and old more understanding of other parts of the world.
I made the night train to New York and arrived Tuesday morning early.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
