
                  
                     HYDE PARK
                  —At 7:30 on Thursday morning my son, John, and I drove down to New York. It was lovely and cool in the country; but as we neared the city it began to get warmer and warmer, and I became more and more conscious of the fact that the summer was upon us. I spent an hour at the dentist, visited a travel agency in preparation for going out to the meeting of the World Federation of the United Nations Association, and lunched with Mr. Clark Eichelberger of the AAUN and Mr. Epstein of the Israel United Nations Association. Mr. Epstein is anxious to make their association more effective, and I hope we shall see some of their representatives at the World Federation meeting.
From lunch I went directly to the American Association office to keep an appointment with a young high school boy who had written me that he thought he had the answer to juvenile delinquency. That seemed to denote so much self-confidence that I decided to give him an appointment.
The boy lives in Mount Vernon, New York, and his remedy was simple. Boys only got into trouble, he felt, when they didn't have enough to do. So he had organized a Boy Scout troop, found a leader for them, and was busy devising constant activities. He wanted to know what I could suggest that they could do for the U.N. The Children's Fund is quite evidently the best interest for young people, and the HaloweenHalloween "Trick andor Treat" program certainly does provide one evening, at least, of constructive fun. This occasion has been used frequently for vandalism rather than help to the community; now it can help the larger community of the children of the world. My young man had already been to UNIVEFUNICEF, and already knew about the HaloweenHalloween program and was going to put it into effect. But that wasn't enough, and I am afraid I was very inadequate in helping to promote his ideas. I had to promise to bear his request in mind, since I could give him no concrete suggestions.
One of our staff members, Miss Estelle Linzer, who has been abroad visiting the U.N. associations in Europe, gave us an excellent report during the afternoon. On reaching home I found that mail and various little details that had come up filled the rest of my time in town. I was barely ready to leave with Johnny when he arrived just after 10:30, having finished an appearance on a broadcast.
We drove back to the country. A taxicab driver recognized my son, as we were stuck in the traffic, and said, "Hot enough for you, John?"
"I'm getting out as quickly as possible," John called back, at which the other man replied, "So you can't take it!"
We went cheerily on our way, glad that we were not taking it, for one night at least. My little dogs greeted me with pleasure on my porch in Hyde Park, and we all settled down to a nice cool night about 1:30 A.M.a.m.
The morning papers brought the interesting news that the President has ordered a review of the Dixon-Yates contract and that TVA announces that Memphis will build its own plant and meet its own power demands. This would make a plant built by Dixon-Yates unnecessary, so the review may spell the end of what has been a long drawn-out and unpleasant controversy.
(COPYRIGHT, 1955, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
