
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I wish every city in the country would put on a World Trade Week such as I observed in St. Louis.
In the windows of a big department store there was depicted Mr. and Mrs. John Q. Citizen. This typical American couple was seated at their breakfast table surrounded by all the things that they used daily but which came from different parts of the world.
The husband's business was the automotive industry, and in the next window was a map of all countries from which we import things to build automobiles, with tapes leading to cities in the United States where parts are made that eventually go into the automobile. In the display also was a description of the countries to which this automobile is shipped.
The following window was devoted to the activities of the League of Women Voters. The housewife, portrayed by Mrs. John Q. Citizen, is an active member in the organization and she makes sure that this work of understanding our world needs educates our United States citizens.
In looking at the newspapers in St. Louis I was struck by the fact that the Republican party is having a pretty hard time at present.
Secretary of State Dulles, home from Geneva, is faced with criticism from his own party, which is even more serious than would be any complaint from the Democrats. Some Democrats in Congress are now saying that they are not brought in for consultation on the take-offs when policies are being made, but they are always asked to appear at the crash landings. This is nothing new. It has always been one of the difficulties that faces the majority party.
But this just happens to be a moment when there isn't a great deal going right for the Republican party. And when this situation exists the majority party always has an unhappy time. But better days may be coming, and one can only hope that these days will not be too far around the corner, but will be with us very soon.
Mr. Bernard Baruch in a speech at City College in New York said something the other day that may point up one of the real difficulties of all government officials today. He said the members of the National Security Council "are all men so busy with executive problems that they don't have time to think." I am afraid that is the situation in which many people in government find themselves these days.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
