
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —I have just been sent as a gift the World Geo-GraphicGeo-graphic Atlas, privately printed for the Container Corporation of America. It is edited and designed by Herbert Bayer. The public is going to be given an opportunity to purchase copies of this atlas and I think that anyone with an interest in the world at large or with children in school will find it a great addition to their home library.
Four years went into the research and design and production of this atlas. Rand McNally is responsible for almost all of the maps of the United States and for the assembling and binding of the book. The maps of foreign countries were made by Istituto Geografico de Agostini of Novara, Italy.
I have found that geography is often not a study considered important in schools today but I have always felt that geography and history must go hand in hand and that a real understanding of economics and even of government can only be achieved if you have a thorough familiarity with the geography of the world, its climate and production possibilities.
Mr. Walter P. Paepcke, chairman of the board of the Container Corporation of America which has produced this atlas, primarily as a gift for their friends, explains that design has been a vital part of the activities of his organization. And he goes on to say, "The rather unique methods of presentation used in this atlas are in character with the principles of design and visualization employed by this company in its products, offices, factories and advertising. We in Container Corporation believe that a company may occasionally step outside of its recognized field of operations in an effort to contribute modestly to the realms of education and good taste. Relatively few people, however, other than the purchasing agents of manufacturing companies, have occasion to use and study an atlas. It is our hope that this one will prove quite different from any other we know about and will give information and enjoyment not only to many of our customers, but also to the large number of people with whom Container Corporation unfortunately is in less close association."
The first pages of this atlas fascinated me and I think they will fascinate anyone who is interested in how the earth began and its gradual development. When it comes to the maps, we can get a good idea of almost anything we want to know about any part of the world. For instance, the page which is devoted to the State of Wyoming tells us many things which it would take each one of us a long time to find out by searching through encyclopedias and specialized books. This is just an example, for on every part of the world the information is very complete. This is a book for the whole family to enjoy and to turn to for special information of many kinds.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
