
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —To go back to my meeting in the afternoon in Chicago, a second telegram was also received and this was signed by a gentleman whom everybody present recognized immediately. It was a telegram couched in extremely derogatory terms to the United Nations and not too polite to me. We surmised immediately that he had been the individual who had driven by the gate in the afternoon, dragging a UNU.N. flag in the dust and pointing to the American flag on his car, calling out that this was the only flag.
The result was to create much annoyance among the people, but of course it did not harm the UNU.N. or the meeting, and it gave me a good opening for answering some of the mis-statementsmisstatements in his telegram and I think had great value in bringing out certain things which I might never have mentioned without the leads given me through this telegram.
Mrs. Goldstein was very kind and let me dress in her house and then we were off again to drive to Lombard, another suburb, where we attended a church supper, a wonderful meal, with smorgasbord that could rival the best New York restaurant. Then we had another big evening meeting packed to the doors and finally I caught the night train in Aurora for Minneapolis.
In Minneapolis the women organize a women's day during UNU.N. Week which seems to me quite unique. They hold, during the morning, seminars on many countries which professors from the various universities address. The one on Russia had to be held in the largest room in the hotel because everyone wanted to learn from a very able young man whose specialty has been the study of that area of the world.
There was a large luncheon in Minneapolis. The room was not only filled, but several rooms nearby so that the tables had to be taken out before the program began.
After the luncheon we rapidly drove to an auditorium which they took because they were unable to sell any more tickets for the lunch and even this was satisfactorily filled. I made another speech and answered questions again and then dashed to the airport and we reached Fargo, North Dakota, at 6:15.
There we had a dinner with some 250 people and then we went to the enormous College of Agriculture gymnasium which was filled to capacity for the evening meeting. They told me that well over 6,000 people were in the hall, and here again after a speech I answered questions till it was time to go for a brief reception at the Episcopal bishop's house and then back to the plane for Minneapolis.
In Minneapolis I found that my plane, a Northwest flight to New York, had been delayed in Seattle, so I transferred quickly to one for Chicago and obtained seats on American Airlines for New York where I arrived at 7:30 a.m. Saturday, feeling that it had been a very successful three days of UNU.N. celebration.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
