
                  
                     LONDON, Friday—At two-thirty we took off from Le Bourget Air Field for London. As I looked down at the French countryside I thought of the delightful and enjoyable visit we have had in France, and how rich a country it is, both historically and artistically. Then below me I saw the Channel and finally the coast of England.
We were met by Stella Reading, the Dowager Marchioness of Reading and Lady Hillington who, in her WVS uniform, drove us to 9 Smith Square.
I love England and wish I could accept more of the delightful invitations I have had but, unfortunately Sunday evening we are flying home, and this will come all too soon as every minute of my time here is already filled.
The news still keeps everyone anxious, and particularly discouraging was the recent message broadcast from Eastern Germany, which is controlled by the USSR; this called upon the Germans to back up the Korean "People's Party" and went on to say that Korea was being divided in the same way as Germany had been by the United States.
When the United Nations called for joint co-operationcooperation against Korea, I was very glad that the United States acted so quickly. I noticed however, that two columnists from the United States seemed to feel that our State Department and Defense Department had been unaware of the activities which must have been going on in Northern Korea. My own feeling is that we must have been aware of what was going on, but, being hopeful, that possibly wiser counsel would prevail upon the influences which controlled them. In Northern Korea we naturally took no action which could have been called aggressive. But, now that the Northern Koreans have gone all out in invasion of Southern Korea, and in view of the Security Council's resolution which was passed, I feel that the United States, and the other supporting nations, have done the only thing that was possible to uphold the United Nations and gain respect for its orders when they are issued.
We must help to furnish arms and ammunition to Southern Korea as well as military advisors, until the Northern Koreans return to their part of the country, as ordered by the United Nations.
It will help enormously if the Soviets will exert their influence over the Northern Koreans in peace. The Koreans themselves are a happy and peace loving people. It is therefore sad to see this division created among them by outside influence. If the United Nations can persuade the Soviets to retire altogether from Korea, and respect its boundaries, it will be possible for a United Nations Commission to carry out its work of unifying the North and South.
The Soviets have to learn that they cannot infiltrate and carry out internal "coups". We have learned to understand that method all too well, from past experience in Europe.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
