
                  
                     LONDON.
                  —I flew with Mrs. Warburg to Manchester, which is one of the centers of manufacturing in England. It used to be practically all textile manufacturing, and before the war that began to go downhill.
But the industrial spurt that has come since the war has brought in many new industries, and now Manchester produces a great variety of goods. It has one small steel mill, but primarily it makes machine arts and still has some textile mills.
Citizens of Manchester have a fine university and pride themselves on being the cultural center for Northern England. At the Midland Hotel, where I stayed, they told me a great many American businessmen came to their city.
We now have only a few consul generals left in England, but Manchester is still served by Rufus Lane who, together with his wife, gave a small and delightful luncheon for me.
On arrival, there was the usual press conference, and the photographers had to have the opportunity to photograph the welcoming committee.
A sweet little girl gave me a bunch of flowers, and then we all went into the airport restaurant for coffee where I had an opportunity to meet my kind hosts. There were about 400 people at the dinner in the evening at which I spoke, and it was announced that 4,000 pounds had been raised for Youth Aliyah, which seemed to please Mrs. Warburg.
The special effort being made for Youth Aliyah this year is because Israel is being asked to take in a great number of unaccompanied children. Poland is permitting the transfer of a whole orphanage of children, held since the end of World War II, to Israel. Many children are going to Israel from Egypt and Hungary and a few from North Africa.
They are being received at the rate of 500 children a month, creating a considerable burden in their examination, adjustment and integration into the community. Children in Israel always seem to me to get remarkably good care, and I am happy that these homeless children can receive the care, security and love that they will meet on arrival in Israel.
On my return from Manchester I was happy to find Miss Corr, my secretary, safely back from her week-endweekend in Ireland.
Moshe Kol, the director of Youth Aliyah in Israel, came to see me to tell me of new developments before Lady Reading and I went to lunch with Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Fairbanks Jr.
They had a delightful party, but just as happens in the U.S., the men had to leave promptly to go back to work as soon as lunch was over. Then I had the pleasure of having my two cousins, Mrs. Muriel Martineau and Mrs. Charles Fellowes-Gordon, together with Mr. and Mrs. Peter Cochrane, for tea at Lady Reading's home.
In the evening we all attended the big dinner at Grosvenor House, at which I spoke for Youth Aliyah. It seemed to me that there were at at least 800 persons present.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
