
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —To go on with my Toronto day, the dinner in the evening was at seven o'clock, and following a custom they have observed apparently in Canada, the head table guests were preceded by a Scotch piper. As they put it, "We were piped to our seats." There is something fascinating about the swirl of those pipes and I saw people in the line, quite unconsciously, doing steps in preparation for an actual dance.
The President of the American Prison Association, General Gibson, gave a fine report and I felt, as always, that the most effective part of the evening was in the question and answer period when the people felt free to ask about the things which interested them.
When the dinner broke up, I went at once to my room and to bed, hoping for a good night's sleep, since I had to leave at eight, but somewhere between midnight and one A.M.a.m., the telephone rang and a voice asked to speak with me. When the gentleman ascertained that I was on the phone, he was much embarrassed, and when I enquired who he was, said: "I was an officer of the German army. I am not as old as you but we young people have an organization we would like to talk to you about".." It seemed to me impossible at that hour to talk over the phone, so I rather rudely brought the conversation to an end.
Ten minutes later the phone rang again and the poor man tried again to talk to me. By this time I was determined that sleep was the only thing I cared to think about and told him so firmly, and he gave up and I went back to sleep!
The flight down on Wednesday morning was beautiful. I have seldom seen a more perfect autumn day and the pilot circled us around Niagara Falls so we could have a better view, but the Falls are not as impressive from the air as they are from the ground.
Now I am back in New York and have some guests for luncheon.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
