
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —I called a newspaper Tuesday night to find out what had happened, if anything, on the confirmation of Dr. Isador Lubin to the post of New York State Industrial Commissioner. And I was much relieved to learn, as you probably read in Wednesday's papers, that the Republicans in Albany had finally decided to confirm him.
The delay seemed to many of us one of those inexcusable, political acts that smacks both of stupidity and cruelty. Dr. Lubin is a public servant of the highest integrity, one who had been confirmed by the Senate of the United States a number of times in recent years for posts of importance representing the government.
Anyone who has ever worked with Dr. Lubin knows not only of his ability but of his extraordinary industry and devotion to whatever work he undertakes. To have him subjected to hours of questioning, to hold his appointment up for weeks and make him undergo the kind of humiliation that accompanies the suggestion that there may be something hidden in a man's past which makes him unworthy of service, must have made a great many people in this country ashamed of what partisan politics can do, and also ashamed of the atmosphere which we have generated in the past few years.
We are fortunate to have Dr. Lubin serve the State of New York, but it will take a long time to wipe out the blot on the records of those representatives who held up his confirmation for so long.
I was asked the other day by the Layman's National Committee to mention their annual observance of National Sunday School Week, which will run from April 11 to 17. This week will be dedicated to the youth of the country of all creeds, and the idea back of it is that all our young people need the help of their religions.
Attendance at Sunday School should be a part of the education of all our children no matter what their faith. It is important for children to read the Bible, but without attendance at Sunday School it may be difficult for any child to understand what he has read.
When I was small my mother used to make us all learn certain Bible verses, and I have always been grateful for the familiarity it gave me with many psalms and favorite passages in the New Testament. Hymns were easily acquired because we sang them in church, and it was a family custom to gather around the piano and sing hymns on Sunday evening.
This was a custom I loved as a child, and I think the children of any family would love it now if it were done as a family habit, and if it were taken for granted that any friends also would enjoy it as much as the family.
Perhaps observing a National Sunday School Week will bring many more children to Sunday School. If it does, I am sure it will be one of the best ways to fight juvenile delinquency.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1955, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
