
                  
                     NEW YORK.—Here we are, and it is Labor Day again and I am back from a whole week's vacation in Puerto Rico. I will have something to tell you of this visit in a future column.
On Labor Day, however, I want to speak a little about the changes which I have seen during my life for the people in our country who work with their hands. All of us are workers in one way or another; in the old days there were women of leisure who "kept house" and had other people work for them. But this is no longer true of a housewife! Work in the home has become a profession and is paid as a profession.
Little by little through the strengthening of unions those who work with their hands have gained a fairer share of the results of their work. There is never complete agreement, of course, as to how much investors, management or labor should receive. But gradually the division among the three groups is being considered as any other economic question is considered and each group gets its share.
Capitalism in this country today is certainly not what it was. I cannot help thinking that, while we await the visit of a gentleman who represents supposedly a philosophy which gives lip service at least to considering primarily those who work, we might well take a look at the aims set down 18 years ago by two war leaders, President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill.
The document in which these aims were stated has come to be known as the Atlantic Charter and it was hoped that these aims would be the basis of the peace eventually to come because they embodied the best hopes for the whole of mankind.
Labor Day is a good day for us all to re-read them, so here they are:-
"The President of the United States of America and the Prime Minister, Mr. Churchill, representing His Majesty's government in the United Kingdom, being met together, deem it right to make known certain common principles in the national policies of their respective countries on which they base their hopes for a better future for the world.
(Copyright, 1959, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
