
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —I forgot to tell you that, the other evening, at the New School for Social Research, in the lounge where we had our refreshments, I noticed a very interesting exhibit of paintings by a young Brazilian artist, Djanira. She is only 32 years old. Her ancestry is Indian and Austrian. She comes from a small town in the backlands of Brazil and has had to fight for a living all of her life.
She is largely self-taught and only began to use colors less than five years ago, but her pictures have sold in both France and England. She paints the world in which she has lived, the world of everyday people, and her work has vitality and strength. I am sure these paintings will interest those in our country who are looking for new talent.
I went to take this opportunity to thank literally thousands of people who wrote to me around April 12th, in commemoration of the anniversary of my husband's death. They have sent me poems and "thoughts" and stories and dreams and letters. I should like to answer every individual personally, but as that is not possible, I want to tell them through this column how deeply I appreciate their thoughts of my husband.
If they remember Maeterlinck's "Blue Bird," they will recall that in that story people live again as those on earth think of them. If that is so, the many people who have expressed the hope that the things my husband cared for and lived for will not be lost to us can rest assured that his spirit goes marching on with the help of their thoughts.
As a result of an interview written by Gretta Palmer in which I told of some of the European conditions, letters have been pouring in from people in this country who would like to get in touch with some family in Europe and to feel that they are contributing individually to that family's better living and greater happiness. I know that American Relief for France will provide the names of needy French families or children, and I am quite sure that the organizations representing other nations in this country will be glad to do the same.
This kind of individual contact has value now because of the material help it will bring, and it will also have value for us in the future because of the amount we will learn about families similar to our own in other nations throughout the world.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1946, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
