
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday
                  —The other night I went to see the French Company of Madeleine Renaud and Jean-Louis Barrault. I was grateful for an entertaining evening, for which we in the audience could thank Mr. S. Hurok and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the French government for bringing this company over here under the auspices of the Association Francaise d'Action Artistique. They have done us a great service.
This is an excellent company and it is superfluous to say that the two leads are remarkable performers. I was fortunate to be free on the night when "Le Proces" (The Trial) was being given. This is a two-part play by Andre Gide and Jean-Louis Barrault based on the novel by Franz Kafka.
The whole thing is an indictment of the processes of justice and the inhumanity of man to man. It was gloomy and carried a tremendous impact, something I would not have missed seeing and feeling, though it was certainly not what you would term a pleasant evening. I hope I shall have another opportunity before this company leaves to see them in another play.
Tuesday of this week the United Church Women invited some of the women serving in the United Nations to lunch with them.
This group of churchwomen has a tremendous influence all over the country. They are the nucleus for much of the good work that is done in small and large communities, so I was particularly glad to have delegates from foreign lands seated at all the tables in order that more women could get a chance to see and know some woman from another part of the world.
H.E.M. Alexis Kyrou, the permanent representative of Greece to the U.N. gave a very interesting talk, which she titled, "The United Nations—our best hope for peace." I had to leave to go back to my committee meeting before Senora Ana Figueroa of Chile made her speech, "The Future—our responsibility."
I looked around Committee 3 the other day and suddenly realized there were a great many women sitting in as delegates, so I jotted down the names of those who were actually representing their countries. At that session the following countries were represented by women: The Netherlands, Poland, Sweden, Ukraine, USSR, United Kingdom, United States, Byelo RussiaByelorussia, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Israel, and Iraq.
The number of women serving on this committee is really growing, and the delegate from Saudi Arabia perhaps is justified in saying that he feels we, the ladies, are more or less taking over the committee. When there was a difference of opinion yesterday morning among the ladies, he made an appeal to them to try to get together and agree, but I really don't see why the women should all think alike any more than the men do.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
