
                  
                     COLUMBUS, Ohio
                  —I had the great honor the other day of paying a tribute to Judge Justine Polier at a tea given in her honor. I was particularly happy to be able to do this, because I felt that she has been an example to many women in New York City in her devotion to her Children's Court work and to the many good causes which have benefitedbenefitted the lives of the underprivileged in that great city.
With all the efforts that were made to acquaint people in New York City with the importance of voter registration the city still lagged behind the 1952 figure.
I have found that people who are independents are finding it hard to make up their minds which way they want to vote, and some are dicidingdeciding it is better not to vote at all!
I think this is a pity, for even if you don't vote, you will have to live under whichever administration is elected. So it might be better to make the struggle for a decision in your own mind and at least feel you have done something towards getting the best administration possible.
One night last week I went to see "Saint Joan," starring Siobhan McKenna. I found it a very interesting performance of this well-known play.
Miss McKenna gives a different interpretation from any I have ever seen, but it is a most interesting one. She has force and vigor and, while her performance in the first act is perhaps the most remarkable, I was agreeably surprised at the way she carried the last scenes, which I think are among the most difficult. I think anyone who has the opportunity to see this play will enjoy it.
I again would like to tell my readers about the National Association for Retarded Children with offices at 99 University Place, New York 3, N. Y.N.Y.
There are many parents in this country who struggle with children who need special care, and the first thing we have to do is to persuade parents that their retarded children can be helped.
There are 4,800,000 mentally retarded children in the United States. We must look to research to help us reduce this large number. But these children can be helped. Whether they need help for longer or shorter periods depends on what they can be taught to do.
There is a booklet called "The Child Nobody Knows" which parents should read. But the important thing is for this problem to be known and to acquaint as many parents as possible with the fact that there is help available.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
