
                  
                     NEW YORK.—On Wednesday night of this week I went to see the Lunts in "The Great Sebastians." I don't think the play, in itself, would hold one's interest, but with the Lunts in it I enjoyed one of the most entertaining and pleasant evenings of the whole winter.
I think my pleasure was much enhanced, however, by having KatherineKatharine Cornell with us. In the first place, it is good to know she is growing stronger after her operation, and, of course, the theatre and everyone in it are the most important parts of her life. But just as a person—if you didn't know how great she is as an actress—you would still find her one of the warmest and most delightful people to be with.
In fact, our whole party was one that I would have enjoyed whether we had stayed at home or gone to the theatre. Dr. and Mrs. David Levy and Mr. and Mrs. Max Ascoli and my young friend, Mrs. Joseph Lash, along with KatherineKatharine Cornell, made a delightful group for talk or for mutual enjoyment of an evening at the play.
I have just finished a book, called "Peace At Bowling Green," by Alfred Leland Crabb, and I want to recommend it warmly to those who enjoy being reminded of the way our country was settled.
This is a day-by-day story of the gradual development of this particular area of Kentucky and carries us through different generations of a family until the end of the war between the states and the rebuilding begins. It is an intimate picture of daily life with delightful character sketches.
I was sent a number of booklets the other day that deal with subjects of interest to the American home, and I think they are all written in a way that will make them useful to young readers as well as to adults.
This is a project of Francis CarCarr Stifler and a group of his friends. He is well known through his work with the American Bible Society and has been broadcasting for over 18 years. These booklets are by different authors, but Mr. Stifler looks forward to distributing booklets on the Bible and on other subjects of religious and educational interest in the same form as those he and his friends are now distributing.
The booklets I received deal with subjects such as "A First Cook Book for Boys and Girls," "Read Faster and Get More Out of It," and "Make Your Savings Work for You." They are all amusingly illustrated and make entertaining reading. And they certainly will not discourage the reader by their length because they are just brief paper booklets.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
