
                  
                     PARIS, Tuesday
                  —Frederick Osborn of the United States Atomic Energy Commission is looking very happy these days since The United Nations General Assembly adopted the United States majority control plan on atomic energy by a vote of 40 to six. It also called for consultations of the Big Five and Canada and reconvening of the commission for any "practicable" work.
The six votes against the plan came from the usual Soviet group.
Sometimes it seems as though the Soviets never will learn that constantly repeating the same arguments only bores their colleagues and does not change their convictions.
Perhaps now that the United States Presidential election is over and the Soviets know the information they received on the size of the Wallace vote is incorrect and that United States policy is fixed policy, the Big Five can meet and confer more successfully than ever before.
I am very interested in the paid advertisements of Webb and Knapp, Inc., New York realtors who assembled the United Nations property, which are appearing in the special United Nations edition of the New York Times.
They have been drawing attention to the inadequate approaches to the United Nations buildings and the surrounding slumlike communities.
They feel as I do, that the approaches—or avenues—and immediate vicinity should be in keeping with the beauty and dignity of the buildings themselves.
Therefore, I think it is very important that the whole area be re-designedredesigned with fitting approaches, carefully landscaped on all sides.
The surrounding blocks should be planned so that attending delegates could live in an adjoining and fashionable neighborhood.
I hope these plans are going to New York's Mayor O'Dwyer.
What a welcome President Truman must have received on his return to Washington. It clearly shows that the government workers were glad to see him returned to office. There may have been a little selfishness in this, because some were assured extended terms in office by his re-electionreelection, but there was also real admiration and affection in the reception.
I was a little amused at a newspaper item about the Democrats who sold their homes to Republicans making deals to get them back—and of the many Republicans who made hotel reservations for the inauguration.
I hope the Democrats get their homes back and the Republicans will turn over their hotel rooms to the Democrats.
I'm particularly glad there'll be more women in Congress, and especially that more Democratic women were elected. I hope the gentlemen will give them a chance to make some plans and will help in carrying them out.
It's good to see President Truman already has announced that he soon will begin conferences for the early repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act.
I understand that Senator Robert A. Taft, who has sailed for a short vacation trip over here, expects the law that bears his name to remain upon statute books, though he will accept some amendments to it. You can amend a law practically out of existence, but whatever is done, I hope the very bad features of the act will be eliminated.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
