
                  
                     CLEVELAND, Ohio, Wednesday.—When I woke yesterday morning, I realized that I had slept from the moment I got on the train straight through until 6 A.M.a.m. I was so sleepy on leaving San Diego that I went to sleep on the plane and did the same all the way from Los Angeles to San Francisco. I only woke up to enjoy the ferry trip which at that hour of the night across San Francisco Bay is really beautiful.
There were snow-capped mountains to look at later in the day and a running mountain stream. And I felt as I always have, how beautiful this country of ours is. Nevada is one of the states that makes you feel close to the mountains and their peaks. The governor's wife who came to lunch told me that her oldest boy of 14 was out skiing, and one realizes how much outdoor life and sports are a part of the life of every child.
After meeting in Reno with our state chairman and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Sweatt, I did three radio interviews. Then we went down to meet some of the people who had driven in. Some came from as far as 500 miles away, and a number came from small mining towns in California, but being on this side of the mountains they find Reno more accessible than any California city. The president of the Utah state organization, Mr. Warshaw, and a member of our national board of governors, Mr. Skeen, came over to their sister state to help along this first meeting.
At 1 P.M.p.m. the luncheon for members of the Nevada association took place in the Sky Room of the Hotel Mapes. What wonderful views there are out of the windows the minute you go towards the top of a building in that city.
The governor's wife welcomed me for her husband who was away, and the luncheon seemed to be very successful. At 3 o'clock we were in the gymnasium of Nevada State University where the big afternoon meeting was held. That lasted until 4:30 and was a really big crowd. I forgot to tell you that I did one other recording during the 10 o'clock reception and at 5:30 I did a final television appearance.
I hope that we have made the state of Nevada very conscious of the fact that the American Association for the UNU.N. wants members, and that the people are a little more conscious of the fact that the United Nations is doing some important work in the world.
We left Reno last evening, flew back to San Francisco and though the connections were very close, we caught the through plane to Chicago.
After breakfast in the Chicago airport, Mr. Eichelberger spent the day in Chicago, Miss Baillargeon went back to New York, and I came on to Cleveland. I am rather envious of the other two who will soon be home and starting their regular activities, whereas I will still be on a lecture trip until next Sunday. But when I do get home, I will appreciate it all the more.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
