
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Friday
                  —The other evening I finished reading Henry Morgenthau, Junior's book, "Germany Is Our Problem." The facts in this book are carefully checked. It is not written with any hate of the German people, but with the purpose of making it clear to us that this land which lies in the center of Europe must not be allowed to start another war. I think it is the best answer to some of the industrialists, both in Great Britain and here, who think more of their pockets than they do of world safety. Listening to them, one would think that Russia had been our enemy, and not Germany—so vocal are those who fear Russia's potential power and who therefore want to rebuild Germany's industrial strength. They forget, I think, that this power has never yet been used by Russia to bring about a world war. That cannot be said of Germany.
At one of the meetings which I attended recently, a passerby thrust into my hand a small volume of poems. I found that it was dedicated to my husband and called "The Wall of My Skin," by Milton J. Goell. Last night I read some of the poems. One verse on the opening page I want to give you here:
Those little lines carry a great truth which we would do well to think about.
In New York the other day, I went to the Midtown Galleries on Madison Avenue to see the exhibition of water colors by Don Kingham, a Chinese artist from San Francisco. For the past several months he has been in the Army, stationed in Washington, and some of his pictures reflect impressions of that city. I had not seen any of his work for a good many years and it has changed greatly, coming more under the modern influence. He is an artist of great skill and ability. But I am not a good judge of the modern trend; and while I like some of his things very much and admire his feel for color, I think, if I were buying one of his paintings to hang on my own wall, I should ask him for one done in the period of several years ago. I bought one at an exhibition in Washington at that time, and gave it to a young friend. I liked it so well that I hated to give it away—and perhaps that is the reason why I would revert to that period in buying another one!
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
