
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —The Foreign Policy Association annually gives two major awards—one the Community Award, the other the Solomon Award. This yearsyear's awards were presented to the winning contestants at the Willard Hotel in Washington, D.C., last night, December 2.
I served on the Awards Committee and was much interested in the type of community programs for informing the people about foreign affairs which had been worked out in different areas.
The first prize of $1,000 in the Community Awards was won by the World Affairs Council of Oregon. Their plan was considered a "significant contribution to citizen education on world affairs in the city of Portland."
The Dayton (Ohio) Council on World Affairs won the second prize of $500 with their "Junior Council on World Affairs."
The third prize of $100 was won by a community ambassador project in Wilson, New York. This is a small town serving 90 square miles with a population of only 3,500 and is a good example of what can be done in a rural area.
The Solomon Awards, which deal more directly with understanding of the United Nations, were won by the Buffalo Council of World Affairs. This group staged a model General Assembly of the U.N. and has been carrying on this program since 1949.
The second prize was won by the City of Philadelphia. It ran Saturday morning forums. These were started 15 years ago just for a few private schools but now more than 120 high schools take advantage of the program.
The third prize was won by Dayton, Ohio, with its Student Policy Committee. This committee is composed of 24 representatives from Junior World Affairs Councils.
This plan sponsored by the Foreign Policy Association has proved itself to spur people on to greater efforts in education in foreign affairs.
I have not seen much mention of the three-day annual convention of the National Society for Crippled Children and Adults. A very important event on November 28 was the employers' luncheon, which highlighted employers' day.
This convention took place in Chicago, and at the luncheon Charles H. PurcyPercy, President of Bell and Howell Co., told of his company's experience in hiring crippled persons. His theme was "Odds: Six to One Against You."
The Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry joined with the National Society for Crippled Children and Adults and with the President's Committee on Employment of the Physically Handicapped and the Illinois Governor's Committee in sponsoring this day. There was, among other interesting things, an exposition by various firms showing physically handicapped persons at work, demonstrating their abilities on the job in different types of employment.
I hope sincerely that this yearsyear's meetings will increase public interest in the employment of the physically handicapped who need this help very badly.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
