
                  
                     NEW YORK, Wednesday
                  —I am quite interested to find that a bill has been introduced in Congress "to authorize the Commissioner of Education to encourage the further development and growth of the educational Fine Arts Program, in state and land grant and other accredited non-profit colleges and universities, and in other non-profit organizations and for other purposes."
As I see it, this would make it possible perhaps to have some traveling exhibits and encourage localities to look for local talent through their schools and colleges. This bill does not envision only the encouragement of painting but it includes the production of plays and operas and concerts.
Any step toward broadening our interest in the arts is, I think, a sign of maturity, and it will give us a balance in these difficult times because it will create greater interest and outlet for expression among many people who find it hard to keep on an even keel through the present world crisis.
In my page in McCall's magazine recently I was asked to recommend any book to a woman whose husband died last year and whose only son was killed in Korea. I recommended the Bible, which all of us know comforted and sustained our ancestors through many hardships of the early days in settling this country.
But I have just received a little pamphlet and I pass along the name because it may be of help to someone going through great sorrow. It is called, "When Loved Ones Are Called Home" by Herbert H. Wernecke and was published by Baker Book House, Grand Rapids, Mich. I like very much a verse which Mr. Wernecke has put on the first page.
Someone said to me the other day that as you grow older you seem to have to experience more often the sadness of saying goodbye to your friends. That is natural but no less painful, and perhaps we miss people more as we grow older. So, anything that will help us to be more courageous about our losses should be passed on to others.
The Human Rights Commission is really coming to the end of the work that it will be able to do at this session. By tonight I think we will have to stop work on articles and start reading the report, since there has to be some time for translation into the various official languages. Friday evening we will all leave with the knowledge that we have much work that is still undone, but at least this year we have accomplished more of the work the General Assembly asked us to do.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
