
                  
                     CHICAGO.
                  —I have just received a copy of a monthly magazine, called "Highlights for Children," and the material in this issue as well as the illustrations are quite delightful.
I haven't tried it out yet on any of my grandchildren but I certainly intend to do so because it looks to me as though it might turn out to be a very delightful Christmas present. There's no doubt a subscription would bring entertainment right through the year, and a considerable amount of information as well.
The magazine is published in Columbus, Ohio, and the editor is Garry Cleveland Myers, Ph. DPh.D. Those letters would not have led me to believe that I would find it really entertaining, but apparently a Ph. DPh.D. must add to his sense of humor as well as to his knowledge!
I think I told you the other day of giving out the prizes at the New York City Hall ceremonies on United Nations Day, October 24th, in connection with the essay contest on the U. N.U.N.
This contest in the New York City schools was started by Mr. John Golden when he was New York chairman of U. N.U.N. Day and he carried it on for several years. This year his Foundation gave the money for the prizes and his sister and his niece as well as Mr. Newbold Morris and Mrs. Robert Wagner were all present at the ceremony.
There were quite a number of winners and I was surprised and pleased today to get the following letter:
"The first thing I want to do is to tell you how wonderful it was to have you give me my check for winning a prize in the U. N.U.N. Essay Contest at City Hall today.
"You see, I know you, Mrs. Roosevelt. I live in Bayside, right at the top of the hill that goes down to the Golden estate. I used to run out and say "hello" and wave to you when you drove by in your old Buick. My brother and I played at the Golden estate almost every day as we were growing up. We both knew and loved Mr. Golden, so that winning this prize meant something very special to me."
This is, indeed, a remarkable coincidence -- that this child, who knew and cared about Mr. Golden, should have received one of his prizes. Of course, I am quite pleased.
As I am talking about books today, I will tell you that I enjoyed receiving from the Museum of Modern Art in New York a publication entitled, "Masters of British Painting, 1800-1950," by Andrew Carnduff Ritchie. The reproductions are impressive and the written material adds a great deal of interest to the pictures.
This book is, I think, one of the books anybody would want in his own library. Also, it would be invaluable in any school library and, naturally, in any city, town, or village library.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
