
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —On Saturday evening the boys of Wiltwyck School came over from across the river, at Esopus, and presented a play at Vassar College. Some of the girls from Vassar have been going to Wiltwyck throughout this past year helping the youngsters with their academic work and joining in much of their recreation. The presentation of this play was an effort on the boys' part to provide an evening's entertainment in return for all the kindnesses they had received.
The school's dramatic adviser, Mrs. Margit Meitner, wrote the script, which is called, "The Magic Wand of Friendship".." The boys painted their own scenery and made their own costumes under the supervision of the various instructors in arts and crafts. Two young ladies in their early teens and two gentlemen were my guests, and everyone seemed to enjoy the evening.
One little boy danced extremely well. Others sang and clowned and occasionally the audience joined them in the singing. There was a very close relationship between the audience and the players from beginning to end. It was certainly good for the boys and I think it did all the rest of us much good as well. We really felt that magic wand of friendship all through the evening.
While on the subject of friendship I received a letter the other day from the Chamber of Commerce and Civic Association of Pasadena, California, telling me about a plan there that has recently been inaugurated. It is called, "Magazines for Friendship".." Now the coast group suggests that individuals, churches, clubs, libraries, etc., should pick out the best magazines, tie them in bundles, and send them all over the world.
The citizens of Pasadena feel this is a good way to sell ourselves to the other people of the world and that 25 cents spent a couple of times a month on postage will help us to put into operation a Marshall Plan of ideas.
The organizers of the plan will be glad to tell you more about the idea, which originated with Professor Albert Crossiant of Occidental College as a means to encourage international friendship through individual citizens as well as groups. They have addresses of a great many people throughout Europe and perhaps by now of many in Asia where magazines can be sent for distribution. This seems to me a very good idea and I hope it will be widely adopted.
We had, as usual, a rainy week endweekend in Hyde Park. Sunday it seemed to pour whenever we started to do anything outdoors. However, I had asked Dr. David Gurewitsch to bring up the pictures which he took while on part of my recent trip and he showed them for the Hyde Park Historical Association at the Vanderbilt Mansion. To my surprise about 100 reservations were made for the showing and the beneficiary was the American Red Cross.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
