
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —One night last week we went to the theatre to see the Irish drama written by Frank Carney, called "The Righteous Are Bold." This play is directed by Eddie Dowling and the traditional Irish figures are well played, as one would expect under his direction.
The story deals with a young Irish girl who is "possessed" of devils. The local doctor would deal with her in normal scientific fashion, but the local priest feels he alone can cure her. The climax of the play is that, in exorcising the devils, the priest gives up his own life to save the girl's.
Unless you can go to this play to enjoy an Irish folk tale and appreciate the settings, the lighting (both of which are remarkably good), and what seemed to me very good acting, you will probably not have a good evening. One of our party found the play not easy to understand. The rest of us were held by it and felt it was a rewarding evening.
I am curious to see how American audiences will react to this tale. It had great success in Ireland, but then superstition and imaginative situations are more alien to us than they are to the Irish. On the whole, I think people should find this an interesting evening and I hope it will have the success here that it had in London and in Ireland.
A notice has come to me of a rather interesting project to be carried out by Montana ranchers under the Christian Rural Overseas Program. This is commonly shortened to CROP and is a part of the Church World Service program—under which gifts in kind for the world's needy are made—with headquarters in Elkhart, Indiana.
The announcement I received came from Red Lodge, Mont., and states that next year a herd of horses carrying the brand of the cross will be roving the grasslands of Montana. When roundup time comes in the autumn these animals will be slaughtered and packed for shipping to hungry people in Europe and Asia.
The cattle bearing this brand are symbolically called the "Lord's Herd," for they will come as gifts from ranchers "who share their blessings with needy and hungry people in other lands through their churches."
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
