
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I went to a meeting sponsored by the National Council of Women on Wednesday afternoon of last week and there Mrs. Serge Koussevitsky announced an international foundation in her husband's name. This foundation will be of value to music everywhere.
I also went into the Scalamandre Museum of Textiles for a few minutes to see some old New York paintings. I had the pleasure of seeing there some of the most beautiful American-made silks and damasks, and Mr. Franco Scalamandre reminded me that the damask on the walls of the Green Room of the White House had been woven in the Scalamandre mills.
A number of United Nations personalities had been invited to this exhibition and I am sure they found both the paintings of old New York and the silks of great interest.
I spoke for the organization of graduate students of New York University on Thursday night, then attended a very delightful dinner at which Dean Melby, of the School of Education, presided. He told me how many teachers the school had trained and how many foreign students now are attending the university. This number of foreign students probably is the third largest of any university in the country.
I was presented with a delightful plaque and Dean Melby, to his complete surprise, was presented with a handsome wrist watch. The students must have been pleased with their success in staging these surprises, for neither of us expected these gifts and I hope the students felt our pleasure, which was very genuine.
No one can refrain from enjoying recognition and affection and it was evident that this organization, recognizing Dean Melby's value, holds him in high affection. And the group also was most kind to me.
I opened the international bazaar for the League offor the Hard of Hearing on Friday morning. This seemed to me a most successful affair. There were many articles, presented by manufacturers, organizations and individuals, on sale, including things which came from abroad. I am sure, judging from the number of people there, that the opening was very successful in spite of the inclement weather.
One almost expects blizzards early in March but this one was a little late.
And since Friday was a difficult day to get around on the streets of New York, I decided to go out and buy myself a spring hat! I bought two of them, in fact, in Sally Victor's and I hope that by April, when I finally receive them, the weather will not resemble that of last weekend.
Saturday morning I gave a short speech on "The Changing Role of Women in the Modern World." This subject seems to be one that is growing in interest. It perhaps has particular value at the present time, since women are playing a larger and larger part in the development of areas in many countries. So this is a good subject for study by women all over the world.
(Copyright, 1956, By United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
