
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —Apparently, my recent column about the sale of Easter Seals made a number of groups feel that I gave the impression that these Easter Seals are sold only in Wisconsin for a particular project for crippled children. As a matter of fact, the National Society for Crippled Children and Adults functions throughout the nation, and wherever a State group affiliates with it, the organization carries on an Easter Seal campaign during the month before Easter to support the work done among people with physical disabilities, including many of our returned servicemen.
So I want to emphasize here that many people can enjoy the privilege of buying these stamps and helping these organizations.
Another thing has been brought to my attention in connection with our disabled servicemen. I hope it will be considered in my own State of New York and in other Statesstates throughout the country, as well as by the Federal Government.
It appears that New York State has passed a grant which is to be given to blinded veterans in addition to whatever Federalfederal pension they may receive. The plea I received was that paralyzed veterans should be included in such a grant, because many of them are as handicapped as a blind person. This is probably true and I am sure that it is taken into consideration by the Federal Government in adjusting their pensions. But where the Statesstates pass special additional grants, it seems to me that the paralyzed young man should again receive consideration according to the handicap which he has to overcome.
For all disabled veterans, particularly when they are young, I think the aim should be to make them, as far as possible, self-supporting because the ability to work and feel useful is the only thing that will make life worthwhile to many of these young people, but some basic security is certainly going to be essential for most of them.
Since my return to New York, I have been in a whirl of family reunions. I was afraid I would miss my daughter and son-in-law but, fortunately for me, their business kept them here and we have had a grand chance to see each other. In addition, I thought I would miss my youngest son and his wife, but they returned from a brief trip to Boston yesterday, on their way back to the West Coast, and lunched with us. So the last few days have been very pleasant ones.
Last night, I went to the annual public forum of the New York Newspaper Women's Club. I enjoyed it very much but felt that they had such a galaxy of talent on the speakers' platform that my own contribution was certainly superfluous.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1946, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
