
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —Wednesday night I took the train to Watertown, N. Y., where I was met by Mr. R. C. Wallace, principal and vice-chancellor of Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada. We drove to Kingston and I had a few minutes to prepare for the morning ceremonies at which I was given the honorary degree of Doctor of Law.
The ceremonies were simple, dignified and quite perfect in all of their arrangements. I became the guest of the student body as soon as I had been taken into the fold as one of their honorary graduates. I made an address at their convocation and had a very pleasant lunch at the vice-chancellor's house afterward. I valued greatly a telegram from Prime Minister Mackenzie King, who was unable to be present, but who recalled having been with my husband when the International Bridge was opened and my husband received an honorary degree from Queen's universityUniversity.
In the afternoon I went to a tea given by the women members of the faculty and the wives of faculty members. In the evening I spoke before the Rotary Club at a dinner, the proceeds of which were given to their work with crippled children. It was a busy day but a very pleasant one, and I particularly enjoyed seeing the bridge which gives access so easily from our country to this part of Canada.
In these troubled times, it is well to emphasize again how two nations have lived so many years side by side, with quick access into each other's territory, and still have no fear of the misuse of this ready access into each other's countries. Canada, too, has in her own country a lesson for the rest of the world, because Quebec has kept such a distinct flavor of her French origin and yet in all essential things the people remain one nation.
I took the train again back to New York City on Thursday night. While I do not pine to spend two successive nights on trains at this season—not because they are cold, but because they are so very hot—nevertheless I enjoyed the whole trip. I am very gratified not only for the honor conferred upon me, but for the cordial and friendly atmosphere which surrounded my visit.
On Friday, at a luncheon at Mrs. David Levy's, plans were developed for the drive which we will start later this season for Wiltwyck School. I look forward to more people becoming familiar with this work, which I hope so much will some daysomeday have aban effect upon the care we give throughout our country to very young, delinquent children.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
