
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —There was a point of interest during my Sunday television program in which I think public opinion could make itself felt very strongly.
General Lewis B. Hershey, in answering a question from a young man, made some rather strong statements. The boy said that when he tried to get a job he was always first asked what his status was in Selective Service. If he was subject to call, it was practically impossible to get a job.
The general said that was one of the real problems that that age group was up against. He felt very strongly that it was a wrong attitude on the part of employers. Even though it might not be as efficient for a business to train a young man and then have him called in the draft, it still is an obligation to give him this training.
I can see the difficulties involved, but I can't help feeling that from the boy's point of view it is important to get some training so he can return from service with some experience in a certain employment back of him. Without such business training he would come back to face the difficulty that college graduates have in setting out with no practical experience. But his situation would be more trying because he would be at an age when initial experience would be more difficult to attain.
This is perhaps part of the price that a nation pays for safeguarding its security. The men who will later be going into service must be given every opportunity to make their lives normal after their period of service comes to an end. It points up the necessity for thinking through universal military training and having certain things happen automatically, with as little interference in education and working life of the individual as possible.
That was certainly a very welcome piece of information given out by the Red Cross yesterday.
In the future the blood donor cards will no longer designate whether blood given is white, Negro or Oriental. The Board of Governors announced this decision. Scientists have been urging this for some time, since it is a well-known fact that human blood is all alike, regardless of race.
This discriminatory practice created too much bad feeling during the last war, and it has carried over to the present. All of us should be relieved to know that at last one of our greatest relief organizations will be free of this particular type of discrimination.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1950, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
