
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —Here is an item that I think will interest most women and women's groups. There is now available a film that was taken in the children's clinic of Memorial Hospital here in New York and in the children's ward of the cancer clinic. It was made under the auspices of the children's division of the Women's Society of the Memorial Center and is entitled: "A Visit with the Children of the Memorial Cancer Clinic." Raymond Massey did the narrating. A 16-millimeter film in color, it is available to churches, schools and homes.
The purpose of the film is, of course, to raise funds for construction and research for the benefit of children who have cancer. The hope is that a new wing can be built that will take in more children who need the care they can get at Memorial Hospital. At present there is only a small ward available for the use of children, and many of us do not realize that many youngsters between the ages of five and nine die of cancer.
I have just had a letter from Mrs. May H. Spurlock who is national president of the Widows of World War I, with headquarters in Washington. She tells me that there are 160,000 widows of the first World War in the United States and that many of them do not belong to this organization. She maintains that if the group hopes to do any kind of helpful work it should enlarge its membership to take over the program of work to be projected at its next meeting in April in St. Petersburg, Fla.
Mrs. Spurlock has hoped to get an organization in every state in the Union. Now she feels she is not being very successful.
I suspect that these widows of World War I have reached an age when they are not anxious to be joining organizations. The widows of World War II are more interested and easier to organize, for they must support and educate their children. They realize that if they want to accomplish things on a political or a social scale they must act together.
I can only say that both groups have great responsibility in helping to consolidate public opinion on both domestic and foreign problems.
Saturday and Sunday at Hyde Park were mostly gray and rainy, but I was able to walk in the woods and see quite a little of my neighbors.
St. James Church Ladies' Auxiliary gave a benefit for the Wiltwyck School for Boys on Saturday afternoon for which the theatre opposite the Hyde Park Memorial Library was donated. The film, "The Quiet One," was shown to a very good audience.
It is not yet really cold, so I can still enjoy driving myself. After church on Sunday I drove down to Fishkill to lunch with some old friends. I know I had better do as much driving as I can now, for once it gets cold and snowy and icy I shall much prefer my own two feet as a method of locomotion.
(COPYRIGHT, 1949, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
