
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —It is wonderful that Congressman Taber has seen no underfed people in "Rome, Trieste, Vienna, Istanbul, Ankara and Berlin." I am afraid Congressman Taber is one of those people who go to the right places to see the things they want to see—and when anything which they prefer not to see turns up, they just don't see it. There are too many people who have covered the places he mentioned and come back with heavy hearts, having seen and understood the misery of human things, for us to do more than smile when we read Congressman Taber's remarks.
I heard of a young womenwoman who spent the summer with some rich relatives in southern France. She had everything that she wanted and she saw no hardship of any kind, either. Yet curiously enough, the rate of tuberculosis among children in France is very high—a fact which does not usually mean a completely satisfactory diet.
When I come across remarks like Mr. Taber's, and then receive pitiful letters describing the amount of food available in different parts of the world and the price at which it is available, I begin to wonder whether we are entitled to have in our government people with so little ability to find out what the real situation is. Even if it takes walking around a block or two in unsavory neighborhoods, it might make for a more truthful picture.
There have been so many strange reports about the World Security Workshop radio program which the American Broadcasting Company is starting today at 12:30, that I think I should explain what we are trying to do. The program originated among a group of 27 women observers who go daily to the United Nations, and who represent national women's organizations. Being much interested in all the avenues of information that might flow throughout this country to interest people in the U. N., they thought a radio program might help. For example, I heard that a member of our government said recently that throughout the Middle West there was cynicism, discouragement and a feeling that the United Nations was doing nothing of value for the people of this country. If that is the case, I am more convinced than ever that the people of the Middle West should know more about what is happening in the United Nations.
I am therefore glad to join with the women observers in putting on a program once a week that may prove of interest. It should certainly furnish information on topics which are being widely discussed. Today the subject chosen for our program was freedom of information. The Philippines introduced the resolution in the U. N. which led to the Assembly's authorizing of an international meeting on this subject, which will take place in March of next year.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1947, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
