
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday
                  —It was interesting to read of the resolution passed by the board of managers of the General Department of the United Church Women, which is a section of the National Council of the Churches of Christ in America, at a meeting at Green Lake, Wis. I should like to see the resolution given as wide publicity as was given by some of our papers to the resolution passed recently by the Daughters of the American Revolution. So, I give it to you here:
"Believing that next to the church the United Nations is our best hope for world peace and because of the growing opposition on the part of certain groups to the United Nations and its agencies, which, if allowed to continue, will jeopardize the United Nations, be it resolved that:
"1. The General Department of the United Church Women renew its efforts to mobilize intelligent opinion and constructive support among church women for the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and
"2. That women should be encouraged to study the facts and to discover in their own communities the forces which seek to undermine the United Nations, and
"3. That the United Church Women take a courageous and positive stand in upholding their belief in the United Nations, and
"4. That the Committee on World Relations seek ways to reach women of the churches with information and practical suggestions for carrying out this resolution."
These are very thoughtful, hard-working women who try to live their Christian principles. All of us know if we lived up to those principles we would probably not have half the trouble that we have in the world today, and it is good to mobilize these women behind the United Nations and its good purposes.
There is a bill before Congress to build in Washington, as a national war memorial, a great cultural center to include a theatre and an opera house, as well as the Smithsonian Gallery of Art, which had been authorized by a 1938 act, but for which public funds were never appropriated.
Our national capital could become a very great cultural center and its influence could be felt in every other great city of the United States if we did something of this kind. We have in Washington representatives from all the countries of the world.
We could have there a center that would encourage modern art in all its branches. We might develop a place where young artists could feel they would receive a sympathetic and understanding opportunity. To do something of this kind would prove to the older nations of the world, which are now turning to us for economic and military leadership, that we have come of age and also have much to offer in the way of leadership in the cultural field.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
