
                  
                     HYDE PARK.
                   N.Y.—If you are interested, you can do two good deeds by sending 25 or 50 cents to the Society of Memorial Cancer Center for the booklets which the society has just published for children.
It is a sad fact that cancer does attack young children. Parents should be on the watch for the symptoms, and they will be interested in these booklets because they will help their children to be less frightened and more able to benefit from treatment if they have to go to a hospital.
One booklet is entitled "Inside the Hospital" and prepares the child for an experience for which he might otherwise be completely unprepared and, therefore, the shock would be much greater. The other booklet is called "All About An Operation" and this, too, is valuable if your child faces an operation.
So your 50 cents will give you two booklets that can be helpful to you and your child and also will give you the feeling that you are helping the children's division fund at Memorial Cancer Center, since the proceeds from these books go into that fund.
The drawings in these booklets are enchanting and most entertaining, and I think children as well as their parents will be amused and interested by them.
On Monday evening Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt and I went to a Stevenson meeting in Greenwich Village. It included people from a wider area than Greenwich Village proper and was most successful.
I hope very much that in the present Suez Canal difficulty the nations chiefly involved will immediately think of the possibility of turning over the control of the canal to the United Nations. That is obviously the simplest and wisest course to pursue.
Sir Anthony Eden was right in telling the House of Commons that he "could not accept unfettered control of the Suez Canal by a single power."
It is natural for Egypt's dictator to wish to use the tolls on the canal to pay for the projected building of the Aswan dam across the Nile. These waterways, however, which are used by traffic from every nation in the world, should be kept free and open for all nations, and when such high tolls are not necessary to keep the canal in operation, they should be reduced. Tolls should not benefit one particular nation internally just because that nation borders on the canal.
Trade is important to the world as a whole and the world as a whole should control the avenues of trade. The U.N. represents as nearly as possible the world as a whole and, therefore, control of these waterways should be turned over to this international organization.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
