
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —It is going to be a strange world with Sir Winston Churchill retired to his Chartwell home supposedly feeding the goldfish, writing a history and painting.
Somehow I feel sure that it will be impossible for him to keep his mind off the public affairs that have been paramount with him for so long. He remains as a Member of Parliament, however, an elder statesman whose words will be listened to by his own people and by the world, and I am sure that we will hear from him often.
I look back upon his visits to the White House during the war and one thing in particular stands out: he always contributed to the sense of security and courage that prevailed there during World War II.
Even at the blackest moments my husband always believed that we must win. I think it was born of a faith that in the end right must triumph. But even the most valiant must at times need additional courage and somehow when my husband and Mr. Churchill met, one felt that each was giving strength to the other and that their joint determination was a double strength.
Now I want to say how fortunate I think it is for the United Kingdom to have someone so capable as Sir Anthony Eden to take over the reins of government so smoothly and competently. Eden was by Churchill's side all through World War II and I remember well our Ambassador, Mr. John G. Winant, telling me how much he admired, trusted and counted upon Anthony Eden's quiet strength.
Between great men comparisons should never be made because they are all different, though they may well be equal. Sir Anthony Eden has served his country well side by side with Mr. Churchill through trying years and now he will serve his Queen and his country as Prime Minister. No one doubts his ability and everyone must wish him well.
The announcement has been made that Harold Macmillan is the new Foreign Secretary and Selwyn Lloyd the new Minister of Defense. Both men, I am sure, will give confidence to the people of Great Britain as well as to the people of other countries.
It should be possible for our government to work in close concert with the government of Great Britain, and those of us who hope for peace and believe that peace can best be obtained through unity in the free world will be hoping that closer relations will develop with Great Britain. This must be achieved not only through our regular diplomatic channels but through the United Nations where the strength of the free nations lies also in unity.
(Distributed by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
