
                  
                     NEW YORK, Wednesday
                  —There is one thing I have been wanting to write about for some time because I think it is important and it received very little notice in the press. In fact, I saw no notice at all!
The National Council of Women of the U.S., Inc., called the first women's meeting on the peaceful uses of atomic energy on April 27, 1954, at the Carnegie Endowment Building in New York. Dr. Robert A. Patterson of the Brookhaven Laboratories outlined the tremendous possibilities for the future of the peacetime uses of atomic energy for the approximately 100 representatives of various women's organizations.
Of course, many women are particularly interested in the possible development of atomic energy along medical lines, as well as for agricultural purposes, and Dr. Patterson found himself facing a barrage of questions from these women.
The National Council of Women hopes that this first meeting will stimulate study in other women's groups and will lead to these groups taking some action to further as much peacetime developments of atomic energy at home as can be done at the present time. The National Council will sponsor four meetings next autumn to further inform women of the progress currently going on at the national and international level.
The International Council of Women will hold its meeting at Helsinki, Finland, this summer from June 8 to 18. This gathering is held every three years and delegates from 34 countries will be in attendance. There, too, the theme will be "The Women's Response to the Opportunity and Dangers of the Atomic Age."
One amusing thing happened at the meeting on April 27. It was attended by a foreign woman who wanted to know why in Europe they never heard that the U.S. was interested in the peaceful uses of atomic energy. She said they were aware only of the U.S. development of atomic bombs!
That was a significant little incident that we cannot afford to forget. We certainly should publicize every effort we make that is not of a military character.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
