
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N.Y.HYDE PARK
                  —These last few days have been both a joy and, in some ways, a frustration for me.
My son, Elliott, and his wife came to New York to meet their two boys who had been traveling with a group of 21 other boys under the care of an educational tour leader. We spent some rather busy days in the city, but at least I had the pleasure of getting occasional glimpses of them and to enjoy the opportunity on Saturday evening for a family dinner and a chance to catch up on their news.
When last I saw Elliott and Minnewa in Colorado, my son was working primarily on his ranch. Now I find that his interests have branched out and he is in so many different things that I had to have the businesses explained to me. He and his eldest son and his wife form atriumveratea triumverate and they are partners in many undertakings, including the ranch. I was delighted to see how interested and happy they all were over their many interests.
I hoped very much that we could meet the two younger boys, David Roosevelt and Rexie Ross, on Sunday and then the whole family could come up here for Sunday night. They were going to fly here in their little plane and then on Monday morning they were flying the boys to Wallingford, Conn., to have them see Choate School and then taking them on to Wisconsin.
The weather, however, prevented the boys from getting in on time. All planes were late coming in, and finally my son and daughter-in-law decided to give up coming to Hyde Park. They kept the boys in the city and, if the weather cleared on Monday morning, planned to fly directly to Wallingford, otherwise they would have had to drive to Wallingford and return to New York in the afternoon.
After meeting the boys and letting all the family have a talk about their trip, which seems to have been the greatest pleasure and over which both boys are enthusiastic, Bill, my grandson and Elliott's oldest boy, and his wife drove me to Hyde Park. But we did not get there until 5:30 and he and his wife had to go back Monday afternoon.
It was a pleasure to have them here, and I was delighted to have Karyl see my husband's memorial and the old house for the first time since their marriage. On Monday morning we all went up to the county fair, which is in full swing, and saw F.D.R. Jr.'s cattle, which are on show there as usual and which we hope will win prizes.
The many changes and readjustments of the 24 hours I have described were frustrating, for I love to have as many of the family as possible here together. But when those of us who could come arrived on Sunday afternoon, our dogs greeted us with joy and my son John's little girl, Joanie, welcomed us with evident pleasure.
I am glad to say that I have a couple here now who like both children and dogs, so I can leave both in their care with a sense of security.
(Copyright, 1957, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
