HYDE PARK.—The nation's Governors, in their annual meeting
in Hershey, Pa., had a wordy wrangle regarding a resolution to be
submitted to Congress for an amendment to the First Article of the
Constitution, which of course deals with freedom of religion and the
separation of church and state.
All this, it seems to me, stems from a misunderstanding of what
the Supreme Court ruled regarding the New York State Board of
Regents-written prayer and the saying of it in the schools of the
state under state direction.
The fact is that this is a prayer written and backed by the
government of the state and directed to be used in the schools, and
which the Supreme Court has declared unconstitutional. The prayer is
innocuous, but this procedure would be an injection of state interference
in religious education and religious practice.
Under our Constitution no individual can be forced by government
to belong to a special religion or to conform to a special
religious procedure. But any school, or any group of people, or any
individual may say a prayer if he or they so wish if it is not under
the order of the government or connected with government direction
in any way. This seems to me very clear in the Supreme Court decision
and conforms exactly, I think, with the Constitution.
It is my feeling that many of our newspapers put sensational
headlines on stories pertaining to this decision, and people have
suddenly—without really reading the court ruling themselves—reacted emotionally.
Someone reported to me that he had heard a man on the radio in
tears saying that he never thought he would live to see the day when
God would be outlawed from our schools. Another told me that a
Southern woman wrote to her daughter in New England, saying that she
was horrified to find that the Supreme Court was controlled by the
Communists and, of course, the Communists were controlled by the
Eastern European Jews. Such nonsense, such ignorance is really
vicious.
One hears it said, of course, that at present in the South the
accusation of communism is rather loosely bandied about and covers
whatever you happen not to like. Not to know, however, that the Jewish
communities of Eastern Europe are constantly trying to get away
from those Soviet-controlled countries because they do not have
security or equality of opportunity makes the accusation of their
influence in communism and adherence to it a show of complete ignorance
of the situation as it really exists. If any people have a reason
for disliking communism, it is the Jews.
When unthinking emotions are aroused we usually find that whatever
prejudices are held are channeled by the emotions into expressions
that have nothing to do with reality but simply are an outlet
for the prejudices.
Years ago, in the South, I can remember my husband telling me
when he took to Warm Springs the first nurse who had been trained in
physiotherapy and had worked for the State of New York that he hardly
dared mention the fact that she happened to be a Roman Catholic. He
hoped—before anyone discovered this fact—that her kindliness of
spirit, her skill and her helpfulness would have won a place among
the neighbors where she was going to work.
He was right, but he could not help being amused when an old
man came to see him and said: "Miss———is such a good woman. But
I thought when I heard she was a Roman Catholic she ought to have
horns and a tail!"
This attitude has worn off somewhat, but in certain areas, such
as where the author of the letter I have mentioned comes from, one
can still find astounding beliefs about the Roman Catholics and the
Jews.
There is a general lack of knowledge, too, about what communism
is and how much influence it may have in our country. And the emotional
reaction to a Supreme Court decision, such as we are witnessing,
seems to me to be the product of an unwillingness to read with
care what is actually said and an unwillingness to look at the Constitution
and reread the First Amendment.
I thought the President's comment was one of the very best. The
Constitution does not specify that we are not to be a religious people;
it gives us the right to be religious in our own way, and it places
upon us the responsibility for the observance of our religion. When
the President said that he hoped this decision would make us think
more of religion and our observance individually and at home, he
emphasized a fact which I think it would be well for all of us to
think about.
Real religion is displayed in the way we live in our day-by-day
activities at home, in our own communities, and with our own families
and neighbors. The Supreme Court emphasized that we must not curtail
our freedom as safeguarded under the First Article of the Constitution.
(Copyright, 1962, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
