
                  
                     NEW YORK, Sunday
                  —I am glad I returned from my trip last week before the unprecedented blanket of smog began playing havoc with air travel in this area. In fact, I arrived in New York on the dot after coming all the way from Albuquerque, New Mexico, which seems to me a remarkable achievement. I was beginning to lose faith in travel by air after being six hours late between Salt Lake City and Seattle. My faith was restored by my prompt arrival in New York, though once the winter sets in the best of airplanes is subject to the vagaries of the weather.
I should like to mention, if belatedly, that in Tucson I was a guest for the night at the El Dorado lodge. My hosts, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Bittker, were most kind and I enjoyed seeing their beautiful Italian gardens. These are dropped right in the midst of the desert, with a beautiful swimming pool, lawns with little markers for those who like to improve their golf game by practice putting, and innumerable places to sit and sun and rest.
In Tucson, also, I found myself rather unexpectedly attending a birthday luncheon for Brandeis University. The Women's Committee was proudly celebrating the fact that it had more than doubled its life members in the last few months. So the library of Brandeis will go on increasing the number of its volumes, for this women's committee is devoted to improving and developing the university's library.
As usual on my return from a trip, my desk has been piled high with mail. But I found time Thursday morning to go to the meeting held in the interests of the United Negro College Fund at the Cosmopolitan Club. I was much interested to hear Dorothy Schramm of Burlington, Iowa, and Genevieve F. Steefel of Minneapolis, Minnesota, tell of their respective accomplishments in their home townshometowns. It does give one a feeling that we are moving forward in our human relations in this country.
I have been asked to mention a movement known as World Wide Bible Reading, which is observed annually between Christmas and Thanksgiving. The American Bible Society sends out a list of suggested readings. I think many people would find this interesting to obtain and to follow, particularly in family groups, for many of the passages listed are general favorites and it is good to be reminded of the things we enjoy reading.
The Thanksgiving and Christmas selections might well be a part of whatever family ceremony is observed on those days.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
