
                  
                     DENVER, COLORADODENVER, Wednesday
                  —On Monday morning Miss Baillargeon and I left on an organizing trip for the American Association for the United Nations. Mr. Eichelberger cannot be with us on this trip as he is serving on a jury, so we will have to do the best we can by ourselves. The states we visit on this trip are Montana, Idaho and Wyoming. It seems to me miraculous that I could leave Idlewild at 11 A.M.a.m. and be in Billings, Montana a little after 8 P.M.p.m.
An article in the newspapers Sunday morning stated that the Soviet Union will not consider an atomic pool for peaceful purposes unless it is linked to the banning of atomic weapons. This seems an unrealistic attitude. They know that they have a larger army than any other nation in the world, larger even than all the other nations in Europe combined. They also know that as far as many of the ordinary armaments are concerned they can either outproduce or match the combined production of the European nations. The one place where they are not equal is in atomic weapons.
If the Soviets only realized that to make a beginning at working together in any kind of pool would have value in achieving the ends that they desire, they would go along on this plan. It might well be a preview of the way one could eventually set up an international pool of atomic weapons. In a way, it is not the weapons that are really of deepest concern, it is the building of confidence and ways in which different countries can work together. To do so on any level is a help, and the Soviets should grasp at this opportunity where cooperation is offered them. They should realize that no nation is going to agree to prohibit the one weapon that gives that nation superiority, as long as there is not complete confidence in the world in the good intentions of all those concerned.
The American Federation of Labor has made suggestions to our government for a change in foreign aid. I do not know whether all these suggestions have value or not but one thing, I am sure, would be received with a great deal of favor by many nations; namely, the suggestion of resuming the Point IV program on a much wider basis. Gradually we have been reducing this program and increasing military aid. This is not particularly good for a number of nations who would much prefer seeing their standard of living improved, and who feel in any case military aid is not valuable. So I, also, hope that our government will greatly increase the Point IV program.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
