
                  
                     NEW YORK.—Last Sunday in Los Angeles seemed to me to be a long-drawn-out perpetual interview! One person after another came in for just a few minutes, which always somehow lasted just a bit longer!
In the evening the Los Angeles Committee, raising money for building a cancer research laboratory in Denver, Colo., in connection with the American Medical Center at Denver, held a dinner in my honor at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel. The room was beautiful, the dinner delicious, and the speeches were none too long!
I was only sorry that I had to miss part of the entertainment planned by Mr. Kirk Douglas, for I am sure it was delightful. My plane, however, left at 11:30 p.m. for Chicago, where I changed for a Des Moines flight. In fact, I changed twice, for I also changed airports. I took the helicopter from O'Hare to Midway, which was a new experience for me, and caught the United Air Lines plane to Des Moines, all in the space of 50 minutes.
Before leaving the dinner, however, I did have time to thank the very generous people of Los Angeles who came in such great numbers to the affair and gave so very generously to build this new research laboratory.
The consciousness of the scourge of cancer is coming to a great many people. We are coming to realize that without research there is no answer to cancer, and we must go on and see people, young and old, die as we sit hopelessly by. Without research you can never tell when lightning will strike.
The dream of those who break ground for this new building on November 16 and hope to have it open a year later, in cooperation with the University of Colorado, is that there will come people from all over the world to do research on cancer and share their knowledge with us. Who knows where and when the final effort will be made that will bring success.
And the latest agreement with the Russians in the field of medical science is one of the encouraging aspects of increased cooperation between our countries.
In Des Moines we held the first regional meeting of the American Association for the United Nations. The other states represented were Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Missouri and Wisconsin.
The first morning was spent with state presidents or their representatives and any other members who had come to discuss their tangible accomplishments and their major problems. We are giving them as a goal this year the increase throughout the country of 150 new chapters and the doubling of our membership everywhere!
This can be accomplished easily where a chapter is already well organized and a state has a number of chapters within it. But some of our states are in the condition which was characterized by one representative as having, on the whole, more "partly moribund" chapters than live ones.
I left Des Moines Tuesday morning at 6:45 and am now back facing my usual mountain of neglected mail and a busy home routine.
(Copyright, 1959, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
