
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday
                  —Certain things come out rather clearly in the election results, as far as one can tell at the present time. Republicans seem to have lost ground in certain states like Pennsylvania, Indiana, Kentucky, and even in upstate New York. The vote against proportional representation in New York City, I think, was largely the reaction of people who felt that it had been used for electing Communists.
By and large, it seems that the voters were largely influenced by local interests, and one cannot find any marked trend which foreshadows the future. Both national party chairmen, therefore, can claim that it was an encouraging election for them.
I think we can safely say that anything which seems to give more influence to the very radical groups in our midst is not going to be looked upon with favor by the majority of our people. The vote on PR in New York City proved that.
I was glad that Rep. Benjamin J. Rabin was successful in being elected to the New York Supreme Court, for my son Franklin, Jr., had been interested in his campaign, and also because that I knowI know that Mr. Rabin will be a good judge. On the New York State amendments and propositions, the majority of votes seem to have been "yes" all the way down the line. Perhaps people get confused, which leads them to accept anything on the ballot which they haven't actually been told is bad!
Now I wonder if I can just make some short notes on various subjects. One of them has a slightly nostalgic flavor for me, since, when I was in school in England, I played field hockey on a girls' team. Needless to say, it was not a very useful sport and I never played it again after I left school.
Not long ago, a women's field hockey team was sent over here by the United Kingdom, and in every game that they have played, they have been victorious! These victories do not surprise me greatly, for I doubt whether the game has become as popular here as it is in England. Where we have teams, they have not been so good. So I want to pay a tribute to the visiting United Kingdom team, who have won laurels in a game which is hard and requires good sportsmanship to play successfully.
Item No. 2. The New York Women's League for Animals, which runs the Ellin Prince Speyer Hospital, is now in need of funds. No animal is ever turned away from their door, and if those of us who love animals have a little to give, I'm sure this appeal will not go unheeded. A stray dog or cat wandering hungry in town or country always fills me with sadness.
Item No. 3. I went to see the Theatre Guild musical play, "Allegro." Charming, I thought it, but not as good as "Oklahoma!" In these days of stress and strain, many a person is glad of a chance to relax, and I think "Allegro" gives one pleasure in spite of some serious moments! Jennie Brinker is a pretty but hard and worldly-wise young lady who knows how to get her own way. There are many like her in this world. The ending in the play is on the whole happier than it usually is in real life, for the lady gets her own way and the man finally awakens to his real wishes and joys.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1947, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
