
                  
                     PARIS, Thursday
                  —Almost every American one meets over here begins his or her conversation with: "Oh, I can't bear to see Mr. Bruce go home." Or "Do you think General Eisenhower is going to be President?"
The French people say a little more soberly, "We regret Mr. Bruce's departure. He has been a wonderful Ambassador, but, madame, you do not think that General Eisenhower will leave us, do you?"
To so many this "giver of liberty" has a voice of authority that they feel sure cannot be replaced by a substitute.
I think the appointment of Newbold Morris by Attorney General J. Howard McGrath to "investigate misconduct of employees of the Federal government" and to "strengthen integrity and efficiency in governmental functions" is extremely satisfactory to all good citizens.
Mr. Morris' integrity is above question. He has a high sense of public duty and only this deep sense of responsibility could make him accept such an extremely difficult and disagreeable task.
We should be grateful to him for accepting it and at the same time we should make it our business to see that it is made possible for him to be successful in keeping before the President and Attorney General McGrath the need for cooperation and backing.
It will not be easy for the President to help anyone by giving them a free hand in this investigation. It is quite possible that it will touch both friend and foe, and the President will be accused of disloyalty to his friends and of blackening the characters of his opponents.
The cases of William M. Boyle Jr. and Guy George Gabrielson are in point. Both men did exactly the same thing, probably without any bad intentions, for the kind of jobs they held made it almost impossible that whatever they did might be looked upon as "questionable".
Mr. Morris will do his best and his best is very good, but he will have great difficulties and all we can do is wish him success because it is important to the country to get back faith in the integrity of its public servants.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
