
                  
                     NEW YORK, Wednesday
                  —I have just had an opportunity to read a number of things that piled up while I was on my lecture tour. My trip to Utica on Monday gave me a chance to read a few things and coming down to New York City yesterday gave me an even longer time.
I drove to Colgate University Monday afternoon from Utica, and spent a very pleasant time there with President and Mrs. Everett Case. They had a tea soon after my arrival and a delightful dinner before I went over to be the first speaker in a forum series on human relations that they have each year. Ex-Ambassador William C. Bullitt will speak in April and they will have another speaker in May.
The human factor in various fields, beginning with employer-employee relations, has already been covered, including the human factor in domestic government situations. They still talk here about the very excellent speech given by James A. Farley on political organization.
There is certainly plenty of room for study of the human factor in international relations and Mr. Bullitt should be able to give them some interesting points on the human factor in ambassadorial relationship.
Among other things, I read Walter Reuther's plan for taking up the slack in unemployment and producing inexpensive homes for the people by using idle airplane factories.
I have always been a little ashamed to have to acknowledge to countries which have been partly destroyed by bombing that we have a housing shortage in this country, where no houses were destroyed by air raids during the war and where our power of production has not been crippled by the loss of factories or machinery.
Mr. Reuther's plan would certainly help us to catch up, and, though they tell us umemploymentunemployment is probably only seasonal, I cannot help remembering that at some point President Truman said we should have a million more jobs this year.
Mr. Reuther, who had been hospitalized, has used his time in bed to good advantage. I was amused also to read in an article about him that he had a plan for reorganizing hospital care and that he didn't think too well of the complicated system of pulleys that hangs over the beds of those who have to have arms or legs held in certain positions.
If he can do the two jobs of improving the running of the hospitals as well as devising ways to give us more homes, and employ more people, we will profit greatly by the time for thinking which he acquired in such an unpleasant way!
Today I go to Washington for a brief discussion on some subjects that we will be working on at the United Nations sessions during the next few weeks, but I will be back on Thursday.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1949, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
