
                  
                     NEW YORK. 
                        Thursday
                     
                  —The "Little United Nations" setup in Wellington, Kan., that I visited the other day is a very interesting program, and I think it is remarkable that one minister has been able to get a number of people from neighboring towns together and build this into a real educational force for the good of the U.N. I think it is quite possible that there soon will be a chapter in the Wellington area for the American Association for the U.N.
Leaving Wellington on Tuesday morning at the fairly reasonable hour of 8 o'clock, we flew to Minneapolis, from where we drove to River Falls, Wis. Spring comes rather late up there and the trees are still just in bud, and it is not yet settled warm weather. It seemed to me, though, that people were wearing summer clothes in spite of the very cold wind that was blowing.
The branch of Wisconsin State College at River Falls impressed me by its rapid growth. Almost every building we looked at was new, but the one in which I spoke was a building the community and the college president have been trying to obtain for the past 12 years. It was earmarked for a gymnasium and for other recreational features for the students of the college.
River Falls is some distance from the big cities, and the head of the college felt that more entertainment should be provided for the students to make it possible for them to spend their Sunday afternoons at the college. He organized a small group and now at the end of 12 years they are proud of having obtained their building. It was opened by my lecture in the gymnasium and all seemed very happy over the event.
Both meetings we had there had large and attentive audiences of mixed young and old people. The student body was enjoying an advanced celebration of Mother's Day, so the girls, who form one-third of the college group, were all there with their mothers.
Getting up on Wednesday morning at 6:30 we had a very pleasant breakfast with a number of the college ladies and then drove into Minneapolis Airport. Our trip to Chicago was uneventful and smooth. Then we took an Ozark plane for Quincy, Ill., and this proved to be anything but a smooth trip. The stewardess said gently as we were leaving: "I'm sorry it was so turbulent for you."
I was watching with interest during the whole trip a youngster of a little over a year old, who was with his father and mother. At this age one usually expects some kind of trouble. But this youngster was the most wonderful little traveler by air. Nothing disturbed him. He fell asleep and when he awoke he played with his toys, and one could not have asked better behavior at any age.
In Quincy three ladies from Western Illinois University met us and drove us the 58 miles to Macomb. We were comfortably installed in our hotel and prepared for a 6 o'clock dinner, which gave us a little more time than the 5:30 meals we had to be ready for the two previous days.
(Copyright, 1960, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
