
                  
                     GENEVA, Monday
                  —When you are living in hotels in Europe it seems entirely natural to try different restaurants for all your evening meals. And I have decided that Swiss restaurants are as good as eating places anywhere else in the world.
Last Thursday night Miss Thompson and I took my son, Elliott, and daughter-in-law and two other young people to dine in a place where one can see one's steak being cooked, and I assure you the flavor of the steak was "unique".." I don't know how it was achieved but it certainly was very delicious and everyone said he had a wonderful dinner.
This particular restaurant, De Lor du Rhone, is very well known and I have seen a number of the other delegates dining there. It would never occur to me at home to dine out every night. In fact, I would rebel at the suggestion, but here and in many other European cities it seems the entertaining thing to do.
We had lunched between our morning and afternoon sessions of the Human Rights Commission out on the porch at the Palais des Nations Restaurant and everyone got his fill of sunshine. I thought I really had acquired a burn on the back of my neck, but it seemed to be all right by evening.
We managed to pass one more article on economic and social rights last Thursday morning and were almost ready to vote on a second one before we adjourned in the evening, but it was 20 minutes before seven and that was "too late" for a vote. The only trouble with not voting at the end of a session during which there has been a long discussion on a certain subject is that everyone has a night in which to think up new arguments. And they return the next morning feeling refreshed and ready to begin the arguments all over again.
On May 1 I saw quite a number of little sailboats suddenly unfurl their sails and go for what seemed to be the first sail of the season on the lake here. Now I notice one or two are nearly always out on the water. From the porch of the Palais one can see them lying becalmed or gaily sailing about, depending on the breeze that may be blowing.
They tell me there are nice beaches along the edge of the lake and after the first of June the water is not too cold. It looks to me to be very cold at present. I read in the Swiss paper that one of the public works under consideration is the construction of a plant that will prevent the contamination of the lake water and keep it ideal for bathing.
The whole city of Geneva is excited and upset by the big fire in which their Grand Theatre burned out. The fire started because they were planning to give a performance of "Die Walkure" and in lighting a fire on the stage the flames spread with great rapidity. Fortunately, no one was injured and the fire finally was brought under control, but it was a great loss to the city.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1951, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
