
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —The Memorial Day week endweekend at Hyde Park was calm and quiet. I got up there Saturday in time for lunch and at three o'clock I met a group of school children at the Library and then talked with a girl from Vassar who is doing some research on the "youth bill" which was up in Congress back in the days of the depression.
Mr. and Mrs. Victor Hammer spent the week endweekend with my son, John, and his wife and it was a joy to see them. They were the most helpful guests I have ever known. On Monday, Decoration Day, which is usually a very busy day for my household, Mr. Hammer helped John make the punch for the afternoon tea party when all the members of the Roosevelt Home Club usually come to my house after the ceremonies in the Rose Garden. And Mrs. Hammer was one of my best waitresses! Johnny's two little girls, Nina and Sally, are learning to be good hostesses and are a wonderful help at all times.
We had some 23 people for lunch before the Memorial Day services. Mr. Isador Lubin, Commissioner of Labor and Finance in Mr. Harriman's cabinet, spoke for us, emphasizing the things he felt that my husband would feel had been a real contribution to the well-being of humanity during the past 10 years.
I was glad to hear him say that though, like many other people, he had moments of disappointment and discouragement because of the conduct of some member states, of the United Nations, still he felt that without the U.N. foreign relations might now be in a completely chaotic situation beyond the control of any nation or group of nations. Therefore, my husband's initiative in starting the U.N. had made "a notable contribution to world stability."
Mr. Lubin emphasized also that he thought the scientists' success in finding a final solution for polio would have pleased my husband more than anything else.
At our tea party my whole family commissioned John as their representative to present Mr. George Palmer with a slight token of our appreciation and gratitude for the work he has done for the United States Park Service in the development of the Hyde Park memorial to my husband and of the Vanderbilt Mansion area. We included also his contribution and that of Mrs. Palmer to the life of the town of Hyde Park. They have made such contributions to the community that they have won the hearts of all those who have worked with them these past 10 years.
(Copyright, 1955, United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
