
                  
                     LOS ANGELES, Thursday
                  —Yesterday morning my son, James, and two friends came to breakfast, after which I cleaned up a little work and went with them to my son John's store in Beverly Hills. Roosevelt and Good is a very nice department store and I found a number of things which I can get here for less than I can get them in New York. I think I shall start to put in orders on a wholesale basis for such things as I need when I have a big household at Hyde Park during the summer.
I was glad to see both Mr. and Mrs. Good and Johnny, and then I went on to see Jimmy's wife and children. They are so close together that within a few years they will be the most wonderful playmates and companions. At present only the oldest little boy goes to nursery school and he came in very proudly from the school bus just before I left with Mrs. Hershey Martin to meet my niece, Janet Roosevelt, and my daughter, Anna.
At 1:30 p.mp.m. Anna and I went on for our broadcast and we discussed the present controversy that is steaming out this way. The American Jewish Congress and the Radio News Club of Hollywood, an organization of some 70 newscasters, have filed a complaint with the Federal Communications Commission stating that G.A. Richards, a radio executive, gave instructions to his staff to give special slants to the news, or even to distort and suppress the news, to promote his own private views on certain subjects. The FCCFCC will, of course, hold hearings on the case.
Mr. Richards owns three radio stations, one in Los Angeles, one in Detroit and one in Cleveland. The question is whether he used the radio channels in the "public interest, convenience, or necessity," as required by law. This seems to be a question which should be followed with interest by a great number of people.
After the broadcast I paid a short visit to Mrs. Martin's home, then returned to my son James' home to meet with a few of the Democratic women, among them my old friend, Mrs. Lilliard Ford. As always happens in a group of women here, we talked of Congresswoman Helen Gahagan Douglas. All agreed that she is the symbol in this state of a woman who, through her services and her good citizenship, has gained a position of leadership.
Then I spent two hours at my daughter's apartment meeting as many of the radio news people as could come there for a small reception. My son, John, picked me up at 6 o'clock and I came back to the hotel to find myself faced with several autographs to sign before I could dress, dine with all my children, and go over the evening lecture.
This morning we will be off for Kansas City and only four more lectures lie before me on the homeward trek.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1949, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
