
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N. Y.HYDE PARK
                  —The Democrats seem to have a real cause for rejoicing in the way the primaries turned out in California.
Of course, the Republicans will make a great effort to change the picture, but it looks as though the Democrats could even take the state government away from the Republicans. This would mean a great change, since it has happened only once in nearly a century.
This, of course, gives reinforcement to the Democratic feeling that the present trend is toward a change in government. When times are bad, the party in power has to expect to be blamed for the situation and people naturally look to the opposing party for relief.
So it behooves the Democrats now to make their plans and to have a program to offer the voters, both this coming autumn and in 1960.
Premier Charles de Gaulle's speeches in Algeria cannot have been received with great enthusiasm by the French Algerians, whose claim that Algeria is French does not include equality for the natives. So both in Paris and in the French colony in Algeria de Gaulle's decision to give an equal vote to the Moslems must have been astonishing.
How much representation this will mean remains to be seen, and just how all this is going to be worked out is still not very clear. So we will still have to wait to know how these difficulties will be resolved.
It is interesting that all of the 11 nations invited to discuss a new treaty for Antartica have accepted. The aim of this treaty, as set forth in a note sent to these nations, will be to "freeze all existing territorial claims and allow the citizens of all nations freedom of scientific investigation."
I have received a copy of a letter sent to all of our high government officials in Washington by John Ford Bacher of Chevy Chase, Md. He proposes a simple plan to help us over the present recession.
He would amend the Federal income tax laws and regulations for 1958 and this year would allow every individual income taxpayer additional deductions of $1.50 for every $1 spent or obligated by the taxpayer between July 1, 1958 and December 31, 1958 on the following purchases or firm commitments:
This is nothing more than an inducement to buy. Whether that is the answer to our present difficulties or not, I do not know, but the flood of plans for meeting the financial crisis seems to indicate that we have a great many fertile minds trying to solve this question.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
