
                  
                     NEW YORK, Monday
                  —Friday, November 6th, is the day that the United Church Women ask us all to celebrate as World Community Day and their theme is "Building Lasting Peace," with the sub-titlesubtitle "What Do Ye More Than Others?" They have worked out a most unusual service built around a series of tableaux, "We Will Build Peace," with interpretive narrative and a verse choir which chants repeatedly:
The climax of the observance is the presentation of the offerings of church women and the dedication of their gifts. These offerings on World Community Day maintain and promote the Christian Women's action program for peace. They still give overseas things for the refugees, for there are still a hundred thousand refugees in Europe, chiefly in Germany, Austria, Greece and Italy.
This is a day dedicated to prayer and to the explanation of what faith and hope can inspire people to do for their fellow human beings throughout the world. All women hope that by helping to alleviate suffering they may be building for a more lasting peace. On World Community Day the church women try to emphasize the responsibility of all women for world relations. Their program for world relations seems to me one that everyone could profit by. It reads:
"We determine to:
The Christian World Relations Committee also calls attention to current issues in international relations, recommends source material (literature, films, radio, and TV broadcasts) and other sources of information, suggests program techniques to increase group participation, offers projects which help people understand world needs. This is a good program which I think not only could be followed by the church women and emphasized on World Community Day but would be of value for a continuing day by day program throughout the year for everyone.
I have begun to put up some pictures in my office in the American Association for the U.N.U.N. in the Carnegie Endowment Building and I must say that it makes a difference almost at once in the room. Instead of being anybody's room, it begins to have a personal feeling and though most of my time is given to travelling I shall begin to feel that when I return to the office it is a little more personal and homelike. You can't do much about office furniture but you can try to do something with the walls!
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
