
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday
                  —It looks as though Senator Bricker had finally become convinced that there was a great deal of opposition in the country to his amendment. This opposition has been slow in building up because at first people did not realize the effect this amendment would have. It is a satisfaction to feel that when information is furnished to the people of the United States, they are actually able to bring their knowledge to bear on their representatives.
The compromise which Mr. Bricker stated he will accept if the President accepts it, is apparently not acceptable to the Justice Department. The State Department has, as far as I know, not decided on its attitude. It is to be hoped that neither will make an unwise compromise since, now that the people realize what the situation is, it would be quite easy to inform the public on the advantages and disadvantages of any amendment which is proposed.
There is an amusing little item in the newspapers stating that Vice President Nixon feels that perhaps a Republican should not admit that he once played the piano! I suppose he feels this way because a prominent Democrat in the White House did the same, but I don't think the country will hold it against Mr. Nixon. It will at least consider it one of his minor offenses.
The disclosures that have been made in various sources lately about the ousters in Federal employment of 2,200 Federal employees, all of whom were ticketed as security risks (though some of them were not even dismissed, just transferred to other departments), have made the President say that he would furnish a breakdown and explanation of the reasons why they were so labeled.
According to one newspaper story, the President himself has made the decision to clarify the situation and it is in line with the integrity of attitude which nearly everyone feels such confidence in finding in the President. Some department heads had refused any classification but it is certainly only fair that a division should be made between the people who are dismissed as security risks and those of doubtful character dismissed because of talking too much, drinking too much, etc.
Naturally, the present Administration will try to remove from government service in important positions anyone who is suspected of subversion. This was done also by the previous Administration. No one can possibly object to such action, but there is a natural demand that this action shall be taken with due regard to safeguarding the interests of innocent people.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
