
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —At my office the other day I was visited by Dr. Robert Smith Shea, director of the American schoolSchool of Tangier, in Tangier, Morocco. He brought me a little book telling about how the school came about and I think my readers would be interested to know of this little demonstration of American methods in a far-awayfaraway country. In part, the interesting booklet says:
"The American School of Tangier began with a need and with an idea. The need was for at least a sample demonstration of American educational methods in this part of the Arab world, a school where children of all religions, nations, races and classes could be taught together, a school which would demonstrate to the people of this part of North Africa the sincerity of American interest in their development and their future.
"The idea with which the school began was the belief that a school could be started with what was available; that a few pioneers, seeing the need, could fashion an answer to that need."
If you are interested in learning more about this ambitious undertaking and can help in any way, you can reach Dr. Shea for further information at American Friends of the Middle East, 47 East 67th Street, New York City.
On Monday evening of this week we went to see Mary Martin in "Peter Pan".." I took four grandchildren and their parents and one friend with his daughter and another young lady. All the young people enjoyed it very much—and I must say I think the older people enjoyed it probably even more!
For those who had never met Mary Martin the crowning joy of the evening was a chance to go backstage to meet her. I was happy to see her, too, and to tell her what an enchanting performance I thought she gave. We also met her daughter, Heller, and her husband.
The first time I ever saw "Peter Pan" Maude Adams was the "child who wouldn't grow up." I thought her very charming, too, but the other night I thought Mary Martin and a spontaneous lightness and youthful quality about her that must be difficult to put on. And when anyone has it there is, of course, added beauty to this particular performance. Mr. Cyril Ritchard, who doubles as the father and the pirate, Captain Hook, gave an outstanding performance. He is an English actor with great talent, and his Captain Hook fills all young hearts with joy.
I hope that as many children as possible will see this delightful fantasy as part of their Christmas vacation enjoyment. The whole cast, including Miss Martin's daughter, was, I thought, well cast and did a remarkable supporting job.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
