
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —I should like to devote one more column to clearing up the tag end of my recent trip abroad. I finally caught up in Rome with Mr. and Mrs. Tom Matthews whom I had missed in London and also on my way through Rome before. So, we had a delightful lunch in the Place NavoinNavone, which is one of the most beautiful squares in Rome, I think.
The American Embassies were most kind to us everywhere and met us and saw us off at every stop. I think the Embassy people must be glad when they see travelers safely departing and know that one more interminable flow of visitors that they have to welcome and keep on their minds has gone on its way.
On the morning of March 29 in Paris we had two gentlemen from the Cambous camp who gave us more information on cases of children under their care. By 10 o'clock we took off by car for Chartres. This was the one pleasure we had all promised ourselves before our return. We would have one day with no obligations and do just what we wanted to do!
My favorite cathedral is in Chartres, and we were fortunate in having one of those clear, sunny days that come before spring is here but which herald its arrival. The pussy willows were out and daffodils bloomed in sheltered gardens. We drove by RombouilletRambuillet, the place where French Presidents invite their guests over week endsweekends to shoot—a picturesque spot surrounded by pine forests.
The Chartres Cathedral came up to all our expectations. As we walked in and looked down the long middle aisle I caught my breath. There is such sheer beauty of architecture and with the color of the windows added it is almost too much to find in any one place.
We had lunch later in the little Hotel de la Providence at Jouy. Stopping here for lunch is a habit now because it always brings back pleasant memories. I have been there with a number of my family and friends.
We dined again in the evening at Les PourquerollesLes Porquerolles, my favorite Paris restaurant, and I said goodbye to Madame who always welcomes us so warmly.
Then, leaving my guests, I went to join some of the members of the French Association for the United Nations at the LatinAmerica house on the Avenue d'IenaIéna. I talked with them for an hour or more about the work of their association and how we might cooperate on plans for the 10th anniversary.
The following morning I went to UNESCO and had the pleasure of meeting Dr. Luther Evans, from whom I collected some of the material I wanted in order to be up to date on the work they are doing.
Mrs. Lash left for Morocco and we got ready to board our plane for New York. It is curious how much one enjoys departing from home, but how much more one enjoys returning!
(Distributed by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
