
                  
                     EN ROUTE TO PARIS, Tuesday
                  —On the evening of Labor Day, in a broadcast sponsored by the American Federation of Labor, the subject of inflation was boldly brought out into the open.
The speakers stated that labor could find it easy to blame management for inflated prices by saying that corporate profits were the highest in history. On the other hand, it was said that management could just as easily blame labor by saying that wages were at the highest level in history.
Further, the speakers went on to say that trying to blame each other was not going to get them anywhere. It was maintained that areas of agreement must be found where each would feel that they were being fairly and justly treated, and that the public was being benefitted. This battle against inflation, they said, was being won just as the war had been won—throughtthroughco-operationcooperation between labor and management.
The speakers recalled that the Communists only await another U.S. depression, knowing it will be to their advantage to go into action at that time. They pointed out that all Americans who cherish democracy must fight to control inflation and win the battle of peace.
It was finally suggested that every citizen ask the candidates in this November election what they intend to do about inflation. Listeners were advised to give their support to or withhold it from a candidate largely on the basis of his answer to this question.
In a recent issue of a publication called, "Counter Attack" I read several paragraphs about myself. I am not a subscriber—a copy turned up in my mail—but the attention of subscribers is directed in large red letters to page two where these paragraphs appear.
Since reproduction is prohibited by the publishers, I cannot quote them, but I can say I think they are rather weak. I should like to argue with the editors of this sheet if they would be kind enough to allow quotations.
There are a lot of funny things in these few pages, and if I am mistaken in being amused, then let us say that it seems to me some of the people who write the sheet are a bit wrong in both premise and conclusion.
It would be fun to have a good laugh with them, but I suppose that would worry them, for I imagine they can't afford to laugh. They must keep on a high level and be dull and serious and try to frighten their subscribers a little more than they already are.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
