
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I think there will be much discussion for some time to come in Republican ranks as to whether Governor Rockefeller's decision to pull out of the Presidential race has strengthened or weakened the Republican picture as a whole in the country.
For Governor Rockefeller, who is still a young man with not too many years of political activity behind him, this probably was a very wise decision. He can now give his undivided attention to developing in the greatest state in the Union the kind of government and the kind of planning that would show, in miniature, what he believes would be of value in the country as a whole.
This could be an exhibit that would prove to many people not only his ability as an administrator but his comprehension of social problems and of economic situations, and give him an opportunity to assert his leadership and ability to override the Republican machine, which in many ways is quite as bad as the Democratic machine.
If he fails to achieve such goals on the state level, however, it will hurt his chances for the Presidency in the future; but if he is successful it will set him away out ahead.
Monday morning's newspapers said that Vice-President Nixon was silent on his political aims. He was probably silent because it was quite unnecessary for him to say anything.
Everyone knows that he expects to be the major candidate for the Presidential nomination and that the reactionary and professional politicians of his party are all for him. And the Vice-President for some time has known that he has had their votes. Also, he has been given every opportunity by the President to develop his candidacy, so there is absolutely nothing more that he needs to say.
As for the Democrats, it seems to me a very good thing that they know exactly what they have to meet in the next campaign.
It was discouraging news for the country to read that, after the first two sessions in the effort to resolve the steel deadlock, the mediator had to report that no results at all had come about. The talks are being continued—sessions that the union is holding separately with the 11 major steel companies.
The continuation of the strike after the current 80-day armistice would be a terrible hardship not only for the steelworkers, but for many other people employed in industries where steel is needed.
Certainly, there ought to be ways in which agreements could be reached in the interest of the general welfare. If proof could be given of the validity of the demands made on the companies and if the companies could prove their inability to meet these demands, then some governmental agency or service should be empowered to resolve the differences.
(Copyright, 1959, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
