
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —Last Wednesday was a long but particularly gratifying day for me. At a very early hour I went up to the Bronx, here, to see the new city hospital, which is to be staffed by doctors of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University. In reciprocation the hospital will furnish Yeshiva's medical school with some of the best facilities that any school has ever had for practice and teaching as well as research.
This new medical school is of great importance to the country as well as to the city. We have not added very substantially to our number of medical colleges in recent years and that is one of the reasons we are short of doctors at the present time. These added facilities will mean much in training and research, but even with these we will not have all we should have in this country.
We were shown through the hospital by Dr. Marcus D. Kogel and Dr. Emanuel Lifshutz, and I was very much impressed by the way the city had done its planning. The structure was costly to build but it was done in a way that will mean a minimum in upkeep in the future.
The old idea of long wards of beds, particularly in public hospitals where the poor are obliged to be cared for, has been done away with, and privacy, which means so much when one is ill, is a possibility. No ward has more than four beds and many of them have only two.
I like the idea of having three chapels for the patients and staff, with the chaplain's offices right next to the chapel. There already are two full-time chaplains in attendance and the feeling is that they may need assistants when the hospital is fully in operation.
The kitchens are wonderfully equipped. I was pleased to see that on every other floor there is a real kitchen where food for the patients on two floors can be prepared so that it will be hot when it reaches them. Most of the food is cooked in the main kitchen, but the final preparation is done in these floor kitchens. I'm sure this will mean better food as well as hotter food.
Dr. Kogel, who is dean of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, had done much of the planning for this hospital when he was Commissioner of Hospitals, here, and he took great pride in showing us all its advantages.
I returned to Manhattan in ample time to go to the Young Republican Club to speak on the American Association for the United Nations. Then I spent the rest of the afternoon at meetings in my office.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
