
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —I got in from Cleveland early Wednesday morning. By that I mean around 1:00 a.m. In spite of being rather sleepy I did what mail was on my desk because I knew that the day before me would be a busy one. This did not mean many hours of sleep but I had had a nap in Cleveland and some sleep on the plane, so on the whole I didn't feel much need of sleep during the day.
I got to my office at 10 o'clock, finished my work there by 11:30, had an early lunch with Mr. John Golden and then both of us went up to Mary Margaret McBride's radio hour. She induced Mr. Golden to stay for a minute on the program with us in spite of great reluctance on his part!
I enjoy being on Mary Margaret's program because I am always so fascinated by the way she talks about her products and keeps it fresh and interesting as though she had never talked about them before.
Mr. William DeWitt and I were there to talk about our book "The UN: Today and Tomorrow" which Harpers published. Quite honestly, Mr. DeWitt did most of the work but the first part I can claim a full share in, and we planned it all together.
The questions and answers about the United Nations in this book seem to me very valuable because they are the questions people frequently ask, and so often they are not clearly answered. Also this is a book for reference which I think schools and writers who want to find out about the U.N. will find valuable. Mr. DeWitt told some of the human interest stories which he managed to weave in to illustrate his facts and they do add tremendously to the readability of the book.
Later, Fairfield Osborn, who has a new book out, joined us and he remembered an incident about his last book with which I was connected, which I had forgotten and it was a nice coincidence to be hearing now about this new book.
Mr. Osborn's "The Limits of the Earth" is written as a scientific statement of fact and he looks very unhappy when you say that he has said anything because he assures you that these are not his opinions; these are proved facts scientifically discovered. He is concerned as always about population problems and the food for the people who accumulate on this earth.
In one chapter he cheerfully tells us of the sources of food that we may hope for in the future—things that we find in the sea and that can be produced synthetically. I enjoyed listening to him talk and at the end of the broadcast he and Mary Margaret and I had a little talk on conservation as a whole.
He feels as strongly as I do about the top soil that flows down to the sea in our floods and which might be saved for our future good if only our legislators in Washington would consent to consider the control of floods and what could be saved in damage by the expenditure of the money needed year by year to do the work on certain rivers, which would control these floods.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, by UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
