
                  
                     NEW YORK.—Dean Acheson's recent speech in Detroit is one that should be read carefully by the Administration.
If Mr. Acheson's suggestions were followed, our steel companies would have to increase their production instead of closing down. But, basically, I doubt if his suggestions can be followed unless we as a nation take a different point of view and look upon the investment of capital in other parts of the world and the purchase of products resulting from this investment as a part of our own economic development.
I think there is no question that such a policy would benefit us greatly, but it takes faith and belief in our future and in our own ability to take on a job as big as this.
I attended the 11th annual reunion of the men and officers who have served on the U.S.S. Yorktown, known as "The Fighting Lady" and termed by Admiral Clark as a "good ship" from the very beginning.
I had the privilege of christening the U.S.S. Yorktown at her launching and will never forget it. On the first try, I failed to break the bottle on her bow. But I caught the bottle again and flung it with all my might as the ship slid down the ways. Fortunately, this time I broke it, for if I had not, bad luck would have followed the ship, according to a Navy superstition.
As far as I know, this is the only U.S. Navy ship group that has held annual reunions over so long a time, and it will continue doing so. Officers and men come from all over the country for these affairs, and they want to increase their contacts by inviting others who may have lost touch with the group.
The Yorktown's officers and men presented me with a lovely silver tray in memory of the occasion and I shall treasure it, as well as the warmth of the evening.
The country at Hyde Park is beginning to look simply beautiful. The tulips and daffodils, and even some of the lilacs are in bloom, as is the big dogwood tree outside of my bedroom window. By next week it should be particularly lovely.
I want to draw attention to New York City Center's spring opera season. The demand for tickets has been so heavy that the production of "Lost in the Stars," an opera by Kurt Weil and for which Maxwell Anderson wrote the book, is being extended from Monday through Sunday of next week.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
