
                  
                     NEW YORK, N.Y.
                  —Staying with Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham in Louisville was a great pleasure. We were only eight miles out of town but you drive along the Ohio River and then you drive up to their house from which you get glimpses of the river through the trees and you have a feeling of overlooking a great deal of wild woodland. It is a gracious homelike house with great dignity and also with the feeling of a lived-in home.
After my arrival we had a tea at which the American Baptist group which sponsored my evening meeting were present, as well as members of the international club of which I was made an honorary president some years ago. This international center still takes 25 foreign boys and gives them a four-year course during which they live in American homes and then go back to work in their own countries.
We had a nice family dinner with the three Bingham children who are still at home.
The Central High School chorus sang the national anthem at the opening of the evening meeting. Later they sang the "Battle Hymn of the Republic" and at the close, "Give Me Your Tired and Your Poor." I enjoyed their contribution to the program very much.
I did two recordings at the house, sitting on the sofa in the living room which was a nice easy way to do them. Looking down I noticed a paper on the floor under the sofa. I drew it out and found a most spirited drawing which could almost be used as a frieze as it had several pictures of horses, all of them in motion. They were drawn by the seven-year-old daughter whose name is Eleanor, like mine. I wish I could have kept them to show my own seven-year-old grandchildren, for the horses had real life in them.
After doing the recordings I had a very pleasant talk with Mrs. Mark Ethridge who is doing a book with another friend of mine. I hope I contributed a few reminiscences of the past.
The next day we were on the plane going to Evansville, Indiana, where we changed to another plane for Paducah, Kentucky. Our time in Paducah was short but I was happy to be met at the airport by former Vice President and Mrs. BarkelyBarkley. They were leaving almost immediately, but it was very pleasant to see them even for a few minutes. Our hosts drove us into town past the Barkley home so we could see where they live.
We had a pleasant dinner at the young people's country club and then the evening meeting, after which we got on the train to return to Louisville where we boarded a plane in the morning for Newark, N.J. We arrived there Thursday afternoon and I went straight to Princeton for a state meeting of the American Association for the U.N.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
