
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —A most delightful Christmas party was given the other day by the Secretariat of the United Nations. Called "Christmas Around the World," it was a charming pageant that started off with the Swedish Feast of Lights and a Santa Lucia procession, to be followed by the introduction of the grandfather of all Santa Clauses from Holland. Soon after that, Lawrence Tibbett, dressed in a Dickens era costume, sang "Silent Night."
Then, before a wonderful setting of a fireplace with real logs burning and some children of various nationalities and ages sitting near my chair on the floor, I read excerpts from "A Christmas Carol" by Charles Dickens. Fortunately for me, there was a good microphone nearby or I don't think my voice would ever have carried from the well in the Trusteeship Council room up to the seats in the top gallery.
Even though the General Assembly sat until past midnight and some members of the Secretariat had to miss their own party and the Secretary General also was not able to attend, the party seemed to be greatly enjoyed by those who were there.
It ended in a burst of glory when the Golden Gate Quartet sang some of their best songs and hymns and concluded with another rendition of "Silent Night."
Then we all adjourned to the Press Bar, which was converted into a coffee room for the occasion, and cakes and cookies from the far corners of the earth were brought in for the guests. It was indeed a wonderful table and I enjoyed everything thoroughly and was sorry when I had to leave.
During the party I was presented with a lovely bunch of roses by Mr. Ben Cohen of Chile, who is now undersecretary in charge of the Trusteeship Council. I also received from Miss Emmy Christiensen two volumes covering the history of the United Nations from its very beginning, which listed all of my participation in it. For me this was a most delightful surprise, and is historically interesting. I will eventually give it to the library at Hyde Park, for I know many students will be interested in it.
Last Saturday at Hyde Park we had a very pleasant luncheon. There were my grandson, Curtis, and his wife; my son, Elliott, and his wife; Professor and Mrs. Sanford from Vassar, who brought Dr. L. Kubie; and my daughter and her husband, Dr. Halsted, and my daughter's son.
In the afternoon I had my annual party for our friends from the old place as well as those who work with us now. Then we drove to my son Franklin Jr.'s house for dinner.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
