
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I wonder if the time has come to give up meetings of foreign ministers, as Mr. Truman practically suggested in a newspaper article a few days ago. Such meetings seem to me to be an outworn method of discussion of questions that really affect the whole world. I think perhaps we had better become more accustomed to the use of the United Nations, especially in the earlier-stages discussion of such questions.
Day by day our newspapers report no real advance in Geneva on the situation in Berlin. It seems to me that the world feeling has to be considered. Changes have come about in the attitude of the people toward even such important people as foreign ministers.
If there is to be a summit conference, I hope that, too, will be under the auspices of the U.N. Such a conference would reap the benefit of the services that can be offered by trained personnel who cannot be suspected of playing any favorites in the arguments that might come about. These people would be obliged to look toward the good of the world as a whole.
The National Advisory Committee on Farm Labor has just published a report that has been sent to each member of Congress as well as to leaders of various organizations. I think this report would be of interest to a great many people.
Since the purpose of the committee is to do research on the farm labor question and to educate the public, it is interesting to find that there is a rather wide area of agreement on certain things advocated by those attending the two-day conference in Washington last February.
For instance, they seem to agree that all farm workers, who are now usually exempted, should be included in Federal and State laws requiring union recognition and collective bargaining, setting fair standards for wages and hours of work and providing for unemployment compensation.
There also seems to be agreement that there should be special measures considered for migrant workers, both domestic and foreign, plus the establishment of a Bureau of Migratory Labor in the Department of Labor to work for these improved standards.
It is important for the growers who need migratory labor to have standards set and to know what is expected of them. And it is equally important to consider the fact that many children are affected by conditions in areas where there must be migratory labor, and that these children represent the future just as much as do the children who live in stable communities.
(Copyright, 1959, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
