
                  
                     Dubrovnic, YugoslaviaDUBROVNIC, Yugoslavia
                  —On Sunday morning in Kotor the local bishop was kind enough to come and take us to see the old part of the town, particularly some of the old churches. The reliquaries of these churches are always interesting because after a cure the people had models made of the particular part of their bodies which had been cured and left them as a votive offering.
The promenade of Kotor is, of course, along the water frontwaterfront where the local coast shipping is tied up. There are always some small naval boats and you meet a good many white clad sailors on the streets, but there are fishing boats and coast steamers as well.
The entrance to the old walled town is through an archway about half way down the promenade. There you find yourself in an old square with shops around and a clock tower. The streets leading out of this square are so narrow that you could touch the houses on either side and you cannot help wondering how light and air penetrates but the majority of the year it is warm in Kotor and on a summer day the shade afforded by the buildings is very pleasant. You have to walk through these streets because no vehicle, except a bicycle, could get through but every now and then you come to an open square and church.
The museum is a marine museum with interesting old maps and paintings of old admirals. One jolly looking old gentleman I was told had fought with the north during our war between the States. They have a fine collection of ship models and a room full of old naval instruments which to any one who has long known the sea would be deeply interesting.
After this tour of the city, we found a little motorboat and a surgeon from the local hospital to run it. He was a Czech who had escaped into Yugoslavia before the Soviets took over. The little outboard motor was as tricky as outboard motors usually are and long before we reached the beach where we were to bathe we decided to ask the doctor to stay with us and bring us back since none of us knew the peculiarities of this particular motor, and it had plenty.
Far away from the city on a point which had some shade trees we landed and found only a few people looking for the same kind of quiet relaxation. The water was delightfully warm so we bathed in the sun and only returned to the hotel for a very late luncheon.
After some rest and a little work, we left about six p.m. for a drive which they assured us would take two hours to Dubrovnic. As so often happens, however, we discovered on the way that the drive took three hours and not two and we were glad we had had a cup of tea before departing for it was well after nine before the kind hosts in Dubrovnic showed us to our hotel and we sat down for dinner.

