
                  
                     CHICAGO.
                  —After returning from Beckley, W. Va., there was a dinner in Charleston. Again there was a full attendance, and I think if the meetings I have attended showed the general sentiment in the state, West Virginia again will be in the Democratic column.
After the dinner in Charleston we went, with complete confidence, to the airport to take the evening plane for Detroit, but there our troubles began. We got on the plane and taxied to the starting point and there we waited.
They kept telling us that we were waiting for the fog to lift. There was no wind to blow the fog away, and instead of lifting, it got more dense. Finally we taxied back and arrangements were made to return to the city and spend the night in hotels. The plane going out in the morning was to be ready at 10:15 a.m.
Mrs. William C. Marland, the Governor's wife, came back to get us and we spent another night in the hospitable Executive Mansion.
I telephoned to Detroit and told the hotel not to hold our reservations for the night, and please to notify those who were expecting us that I could not get in until 12:48 p.m. the next day.
As far as I knew, this meant that only two press conferences had to be cancelled, but on these trips so many events are arranged at the last minute that I may have been quite wrong in thinking that my delay was not too upsetting to my Detroit hosts.
The next morning dawned still foggy. We drove to the airport and waited, and nearly an hour passed before we were able to get a plane. What this would mean in my arrival in Detroit I did not know, but I was hopeful there was no really important large gathering until late afternoon.
The other day I was sent information on a long study on "Emotions, Motives and the Woman Voter," by two professors, Edward M. Bennett and HarriettHarriet Goodwin, of Tufts University.
These studies seem to be largely in the form of tests. Words are put down and women are asked to attach the most descriptive words to certain feelings or conditions.
How reliable these tests are is a question in my mind, for I have never felt that the woman voter could be studied apart from the man voter. One reacts on the other, and the motives and emotions which make people vote one way or another is more complicated, I think, than these tests would lead you to believe.
I doubt if the tests really answer the questions of why and how women vote, but they may be a beginning which will enable us to find a way to give women more incentive to vote. That, to me, is the most important thing, for no democracy can succeed unless its citizens take an active part in the government and the political machines which make the government work.
I am glad to have seen these studies but doubt if as yet they are complete enough to make them of great value.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
