
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —When the Soviet Union reversed its position and gave up trying to get Outer Mongolia into the United Nations, and even though it exercised its veto on Japan, its acceptance of 16 new members to the U.N. is a step toward universality that now puts the U.N. roll call at 76 members. This is certainly something to rejoice over.
Previously to Russia's reversal of its stand on Outer Mongolia, the Soviets had cast vetoes against South Korea and South Viet NamVietnam, which, of course, moved Nationalist China to veto Outer Mongolia. Then the Soviet Union proceeded to veto all the other countries except her own satellites in the 18-package deal, which made the whole procedure seem a farce were it not for the fact that it was rather tragic.
In a world organization there must be people of different governments and beliefs, and to many observers it seemed that to hand the Soviets five more votes while bringing 13 more votes to the free world would be an advantage rather than a disadvantage. At least, a majority of U.N. members considered this to be so and, in spite of United States reluctance to give another vote to the Soviet Union side, we seemed finally to agree that on the whole the free world would gain and the principle of including all nations eventually in the U.N. would have moved forward.
Some people felt that there was a moral principle involved in voting for or against Outer Mongolia, but I cannot feel that way. I do not like communism or the Communist influence, but as long as they exist in the world we are safer, I think, when they are in the U.N. where they are constantly exposed to hearing the point of view of other areas of the world. At least, this would seem better than to leave such countries out where they can hear and read only what is handed them by the Soviet Union.
Of course, there stands on the record certain condemnations of various of the members which have not been admitted to membership. Spain, for instance, has not been looked upon as a very desirable member and there are others that have had difficulties in regard to their qualifications before this.
But, on the whole, I think everyone would agree that it is to the advantage of the U.N. to have increased its membership in this way. And I hope the day will come when, as the President of the General Assembly said, the remaining nations will qualify and be admitted to this family of sovereign states that is trying to bring about a more peaceful atmosphere in the world.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
