
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  —On Friday I saw the workings of a TV control room during the Tex and Jinx show. I must say it is a very busy place, and certainly gives one an understanding of how complicated it is to put on a TV performance.
We went afterwards into the studio where the show was being produced. With us was my old friend, John Golden, and somewhat to his surprise he found himself being photographed on TV, something which he assured me he had no intention of being done! He prefers the radio, where you are heard but not seen. However, these little impromptu shots in a long program are what make Tex and Jinx's show entertaining and unexpected.
I am constantly surprised to have Mr. Golden tell me that some friend of his is opposed to the U.N., on the ground that it has no value and accomplishes nothing. His answer, I believe, is about as good an answer as anyone can give to people who are thinking along what seems to me illogical lines. Mr. Golden replies: "If you can think of anything better, propose it. But in the meantime, isn't it essential to try to use the U.N. as far as we can, since it is the only thing we have to use?"
It also seems to me that people who make this objection are usually unaware of anything which goes on in the U.N. beyond the meetings in New York City. They rarely know much about the work of the specialized agencies, of the technical assistance plan, or of the Children's Fund. I am sure if they made a study of the day-by-day activities of these agencies, they would at least acknowledge the value of this work in creating an atmosphere of greater understanding among the peoples of the world. They would concede that it proves over and over again how cooperation among people of different races and religions can frequently bring remarkably good results.
Mrs. Oswald Lord lunched with us on Friday at Sardi's and was her usual charming self. She told of the various speaking trips which she had taken throughout the country on behalf of the U.N., and of some difficult meetings where she had been preceded on the platform by people who were much opposed to the U.N. I am sure, however, that she was persuasive enough to change the minds even of stubborn audiences.
She told me she had been to many places where I had been in the last few months. I hope, if she undertakes more trips next year, that she will find some good results in the country from the trips Mr. Eichelberger and I have taken in our organizational efforts for the American Association for the U.N.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
