
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —It seems to me more and more apparent that we are growing in this world to learn the value of working together. In the United Nations, wonderful things are accomplished through cooperation. Already in this country for a long time we have been developing the Community Chest idea, whereby as many charitable and civic organizations as can work together decide to raise their funds in one campaign. Most of us understand the value of the organizations that come together in the Community Chest because they work in our own community.
Now we are adding another group of organizations called the United Defense Fund, and USO is included. Under the United Defense Fund, "We provide for all those engaged in defense of our country, the health and recreation services they need, and we demonstrate to them and the rest of the world that in this country, as befits a democracy, each one of us carries his full share of responsibility for defense of his nation".."
In giving to both the Community Chest and the United Defense Fund Campaign, we are meeting the need for necessary services in our community and to the young people of our community who go far afield in our defense program. We must be mindful of these needs at all times when their appeals are made to us.
I was in Hyde Park this week to sit on the platform with my son, John, and hear the program put on by the Town Meeting of the Air. I was particularly glad to have Mr. Harriman answer the old fears on what happened at Yalta, since he was there and could speak with authority. The questions are always enlightening.
One youngster thought that it was my husband who made the decision to drop the bomb on Hiroshima. So quickly does the sequence of history get lost as time passes.
I left home for my apartment in New York for the yearly meeting of the new board of the Film Council of America. I find this a particularly interesting project since it is an effort through 16 mm. films to do educational work in America along many lines.
Through films is one way of reaching the public, and as I listened to the description of how the Film Council has been developed and is now working under a grant from the Ford Foundation and certain other sources of income, I began to visualize how it could be used in my home community at Hyde Park.
I find that I do this in just the way my husband used to do it, with the idea that if you can think out a way of doing it in one place, you can do it in many places of similar size and population.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
