
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —Monday evening I attended a meeting of the B'nai B'rith Eleanor Roosevelt Chapter in the Bronx where Mr. Eichelberger was presented with an award commemorating the work done by the American Association for the United Nations in its support of that organization. It was a very pleasant meeting and I deeply appreciated the interest in the UNU.N. and the work of the Association.
They are going to help us get members for the Association among their own members and this is a plan which I hope other organizations cooperating with the AAUN will follow. It would mean they can get monthly information about the activities of the UNU.N. by simply joining the Association as a member of the nearest AAUN chapter to their local chapter.
I have just received a rather interesting letter. It is headed "Somewhere in North Korea" and says:
"Dear Mrs. Roosevelt:
"Perhaps you don't remember me but I had the honor of meeting you on several occasions and the one that stands out most in my memory is when you gave a lecture about the UNU.N. at the Red Hook grange. At that time I was a member of a Social Studies class at the Red Hook Central High School.
"Presently I am the troop education and information NCO for the Third Battalion, 23rd Infantry Regiment and I am engaged in developing a program for giving old clothes to Korean kids in the Korean town that the Third Battalion has picked to help. Most of us GI's are writing to our folks back home and asking their aid.
"Would you please give us some help in your newspaper column and any organizations which you may come in contact with from day to day? Have them send old clothes, etc. to 'Aid for Korea' in care of my address: Cpl. Herman Bookjans; US 51193369; Hdq. Co. 3rd Battalion; APO 248 c/o P.M. General; San Francisco, Calif.
"Respectfully yours,
"Herman B. Bookjans"
It seemed to me that this was a request that many people would like to help fill if they had children's clothes and I imagine that clothes for men and women would be just as welcome, for every age has suffered in Korea. Every inch of land has been fought over time and time again and the Koreans barely get started tilling their fields when some chance of war wipes out their efforts.
This is the season of the year when we all want to give, and while I have no children's clothes at present, I may do better on an older level. Perhaps I can get some of my daughters-in-law and even my grandchildren to help me out on smaller sizes.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
