
                  
                     NEW YORK.—Senator Hubert H. Humphrey has sponsored a resolution to delete the Connolly Reservation—a power that gives the United States the right to choose whether we will submit certain questions to the World Court at The Hague or not.
In adhering to this resolution we are putting ourselves on the side of the Soviet nations and preventing the international court at The Hague from becoming a "fully useful judicial body." Our action in repudiating the Connolly Reservation would give the world an example which we might well hope would be followed by other nations.
Why should we insist that "disputes with regard to matters which are essentially within the jurisdiction of America as determined by the U.S. of America" shall not come before the international court of justice? Does this mean that we are afraid?
In that case, we must be conscious of areas where we are falling short of meeting the conscience of the world today and we fear that we may be called to account. It will not help us to hide behind such a reservation.
We had better face ourselves and realize that if we want to see force removed in international relations we must be willing to build a stronger legal system in all areas of international affairs.
Now to turn for a minute to a domestic question.
What a shocking revelation the publication of the Air Force training manual was!
This type of situation does not stand alone. It is a symptom and it shows what the general thinking probably is, not in the Air Force alone but in the armed services generally.
Someone fortunately discovered this and it could be done away with and apologies made to the maligned church groups, but the people's reaction to this should not stop at words. We should demand new and clearer thinking.
If this is still an effect of the McCarthy period in our history, then this evil influence has remained among us for too long and we had better come quickly to a conclusion as to what are the real menaces to freedom in the U.S.
The number of Communists is growing less. They are a weak organization today. What makes us continue this ridiculous fear which casts a shadow over everyone who holds different ideas from those held by certain other people?
We still feel that there is justification in demanding that people become informers and in punishing them if they refuse. We have not yet regained full confidence in the people of our country and in ourselves, which we once had. We are no longer going forward and dealing positively with questions. We let other people act and then we try to meet their action, but somehow our fears have stultified our creative ability.
This is a sorry position for the U.S. to be in and our leaders had better free us from this type of fear as soon as they can.
(Copyright, 1960, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
