
                  
                     NEW YORK.—The replacement next month of Mao Tse-tung as head of the Chinese Communist government by Marshal Chu Teh is interesting if only because it shows that generals are coming into power in many parts of the world.
I think we in the United States started it all, and now other nations are copying us. Perhaps we should not feel that they are following our example, but it is extraordinary how people are turning to military authority.
This is true particularly in the areas of the world that are not too well prepared for self-government—areas in which people need someone to accept responsibility and tell them what to do. Whether this turning to military authority is wise or not remains to be seen.
The other day I went to a luncheon here given by people interested in the American Medical Center at Denver, Colo. And although I could stay only a short time, I was pleased to hear of the plans the center is making to join the large-scale fight on cancer in this country.
Two out of every three families know the fear of this disease, which kills more children than any other ailment. So we should be grateful for whatever efforts are made to find a cure and to provide the knowledge and treatment necessary to save many if the illness is discovered early enough.
Cancer is the No. 2 killer in our country, and I am told that 25 million more in the U.S. will die from it unless our research is successful.
The center luncheon brought together prominent industrial and business leaders who favor a unique cancer treatment and research program at the Denver institution.
This center is 55 years old, and its doors have always been open to people of all faiths who have tuberculosis or cancer. It has offered free hospitalization for an unlimited period, thereby saving the lives of many who seemed doomed to die.
Its new institute for cancer research has been kindly named after me, and Matthew B. Rosenhaus, a leader in the pharmaceutical field, has accepted the chairmanship of the board of governors.
I shall watch the progress of work at this new institute with the keenest of interest. I am happy that a man has been found to head the board who, while still in his 40s and a successful business leader, is most sentitive and compassionate in his concern for those attacked by this disease and for the anguish that it brings their families.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
