
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —In addition to the Presidential side of the coming elections, I have a special interest in some of the candidates running for Congress and state offices. Among them is Chester Bowles, who is running for Governor of Connecticut.
Mr. Bowles can speak with authority on price control and the way to prevent inflation. When we had OPA we did not have all we wanted, perhaps, but at least all of us were treated on the same basis, rich and poor alike. We received an equal ration, and prices in wartime did not equal those we have had since the theory of returning to the old methods of no control at all was accepted and given a fair trial both by Democrats and Republicans.
The State of Connecticut has an opportunity to vote for a Governor who is a real liberal and who is capable of thinking through the problems that face us today. I hope Mr. Bowles is successful in his quest for the office he seeks.
In Minneapolis, Minn., there is a young man who has proved himself a good Mayor, and now is looking toward Washington. He is Hubert Humphrey, and he is running for the Senate seat now occupied by Joseph H. Ball. He showed courage at the National Democratic Convention, and leadership and organizing ability as well. He might infuse new life into a Congress that certainly needs it, and he would certainly stand for more liberal domestic policies than his opponent.
There are many other Democrats, such as Paul Douglas and Adlai Stevenson who are running for office in the State of Illinois—one for Governor and one for Senator. Both of them are liberals.
Mr. Stevenson had a very long and unique experience in preparing for the first United Nations General Assembly meeting in London. He learned what negotiation with other nations meant, and it certainly will help him in the national scene where patience and the art of negotiation must be practiced much as it is practiced in the international field.
In California, Chet Holifield is a young liberal who deserves our support. And, of course, I have a special interest in Helen Gahagan Douglas, who has made a great success as a Congresswoman and who has done it through her constant interest in such things as affect the daily lives of the people.
These are just a few candidates picked at random who should inspire those who care enough about our government to gotget out and work in the coming elections. There are many more, and everyone who looks around his own locality probably will find them and feel the urge to work for them. If we want to have a hand in shaping the future, it is only through work at home that we can hope to have any influence at all.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
