
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —I arrived back exactly on time Thursday morning after crossing the continent in a DC-7 nonstop. I must say one is spoiled by the rapidity with which one can cross from one side of the United States to the other!
I had a very pleasant day in Los Angeles. I saw both James and Anna and her family, and I stayed with Mrs. Hershey Martin.
The national convention of the CIO which I attended was a very special meeting, they told me. I think the reason was that many members felt this was perhaps the last meeting the CIO, as such, would hold, since unity with the AFL seems closer. It will strengthen labor very much if the movement can be unified. There is no question in my mind about the increasing responsibility that labor feels because of its added strength. I am happy to see this grow as I feel that we are going to need all the statesmanship that every group in this country can furnish during the next few years.
I had a very interesting trip out and found my seat companion to be a delightful conversationalist. He was Mr. Kingel, the director of research for Union Carbide and he told me much that was of great interest.
On my return trip I had a young man in the seat next to mine who spent two years in Tunisia drilling unsuccessfully for oil. After three months at home he was heading for islands in the Caribbean Sea where further efforts will be made to find oil. I only hope he will have greater success this time.
Even a day in California brings something new that you had not heard of before. I am always interested in CARE's work but I had not heard that they were asking people to participate in a Christmas food crusade through which millions of pounds of our surplus agricultural products are going to the neediest areas abroad.
For one dollar a 28-pound food package of this kind will be sent and if you give more than five dollars you will receive the receipt from those who receive the package, but you cannot designate these packages for individuals. However, you can be sure that they will go where there is a critical need and they will be distributed as holiday gifts under the supervision of CARE's overseas staff.
The above information was given me in California and the address there is a Los Angeles one, but I am sure the New York office must be carrying on the same program. At least you can call here and find out. If you send to California, address your donation to CARE, 1422 North Highland, Los Angeles, California.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
