
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Friday
                  —Last Tuesday Evening now seems like it was a dream. It was all done so quickly. I left New York City at four o'clock in the afternoon and I was back in my hotel before four o'clock the next morning.
From the time I was greeted at the Chicago airport the convention atmosphere seemed all around us. I was taken by surprise when the delegates gave me such a warm and kindly greeting, but I realized that hearing the band play "Happy Days Are Here Again" had touched off memories in the hearts of many of the delegates. It was a very moving tribute to my husband's memory. He would have deeply appreciated and enjoyed the warmth and enthusiasm of all those present. I think he always really got a tremendous amount of inspiration and personal pleasure from these gatherings and that is why I think he always gave out so much in return.
I had felt it would be very difficult to make a speech on the United Nations when nearly everybody's mind was occupied with such subjects as credentials, nominating speeches, maneuvering behind the scenes, and, above everything else, the candidates. I was very grateful since by having a number of people say they had been given insight into the work of the U.N.
My niece, Mrs. Edward Elliott, met me at the station when I reached Poughkeepsie Wednesday morning and my first question was: "Do we have to go to the market?" The hot days we have been having do not make marketing for our large family exactly a joy, though ordinarily I find it quite pleasant. I like to take my trundle cart and fill it up with food. At first I could not find what I wanted on the shelves, but gradually I am learning where everything is.
I used to telephone an order and then have it picked up, but I found that was rather extravagant. Now I go and pick and choose.
The other day someone told me they took some foreign guests whom they were entertaining to one of our super marketssupermarkets, and the Latin-AmericansLatin Americans were thrilled to find products such as canned corned beef from Argentina and Brazilian coffee on sale.
In the market I had one amusing experience when a gentleman who evidently had had one or two drinks too many, looked at me as I was having my purchases added up and, leaning toward me, said in a loud whisper: "I know who you are; you can't fool me even if nobody else here knows you." I assured him that a great many people knew me and that wehe had not made any startling discovery.
I was not sorry, however, to find that my shopping was all done last Wednesday and we could go straight home for a swim before lunch. I was glad to find my aunt and uncle, Mr. and Mrs. David Gray, safely ensconsed here for a brief visit before they return to Portland, Maine.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
