
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Monday
                  —I was glad to see that our Democratic National Convention will have more women represented than took part in the Republican convention. The number of Democratic women delegates will be larger than it was in 1948.
The National Democratic Committee has announced that it has not yet heard from two states, but so far women delegates and alternates to the convention total 525. The Republicans had 380. It would look as though the work of the women was gradually gaining recognition and evidently receiving more rapid recognition in the Democratic party than among the Republicans.
In New York City last Thursday night I went to see an old friend, Eddie Dowling, in "Paint Your Wagon." It was an easy and entertaining evening, with no high points of tension or emotion; it was just pleasant. Eddie Dowling was good, and so was most of the cast. If you are in town for a night during the hot weather you can very well spend a pleasant evening at this play.
Friday morning I came back to Hyde Park and was as busy as a bee during the day. A group of 28 high-school youngsters, with their chaperonschaperones, came to use my picnic grounds at noon. They were sponsored by a church in Seattle, Wash. Every two years this church sends a group on a cross-country tour. The youngsters had been to Chicago, Detroit, Niagara Falls, Boston, and New York, and were on their way to Washington, D.C. It is a wonderful opportunity for these youngsters to see something of their own country at this impressionable age. I went out and talked to them for a few minutes.
In the afternoon I did some shopping for what is really a miniature hotel that I run during these three summer months. My mother-in-law always said I enjoyed having many people around me, and when you start with seven children and four grown-ups here all the time, and then add all the incidental guests, you do have a good many people constantly around.
Mr. and Mrs. James P. Hendrick of Washington and their two sons came on Saturday after spending Friday night with Franklin Jr. and his wife at their farm, about half an hour's drive from here. My Congressman son and the Hendricks have a great bond in common. They own the same kind of sheep! In fact, many of Franklin's come from the Hendrick farm in Virginia.
The Hendricks are a musical family, so in the evening all of them with my niece, Mrs. Edward P. Elliott, attended with me what is known as the Museum Concert Series, sponsored by the Hudson Valley Music Circle, given at the Mills Memorial State Park.
Two Ttwins who are now in the Air Force, Gerald and Wilfred Beal, exceptionally good violinists with a remarkable accompanist, Miss Harriet Wingreen, gave a most delightful program. I think I enjoyed Johannes Brahms' Sonata Number Two in A Major more than anything else. Even so, that was hard to decide, because these two boys are really finished musicians. The Air Force is lucky to have them in its orchestra and it was lucky for us that they were allowed to play again in this neighborhood.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1952, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
