
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I am becoming considerably troubled about the attitude of our government on nuclear testing.
Disarmament negotiations have resumed in Geneva, and I feel sure that our representative, James J. Wadsworth, is genuinely hoping for a treaty. But I am not at all sure that the Pentagon and the Atomic Energy Commission in Washington are not going to make it impossible to come to an agreement on one.
Granted, we do not have a device which under all circumstances would ensure the discovery of an atomic explosion anywhere, even underground. But the chances are that before long we may perfect such a device.
In the meantime, we know well that a continuation of nuclear tests is a danger that may harm the whole human race. There are differences concerning the exact amount of harm they can cause, but this is only a question of degree.
So whatever we do, we run a risk. I personally think, therefore, that we should find a way to write a nuclear disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union now. After all, continuation of tests is as much a menace to the Soviet people as to ours, so there is a real motive for both sides living up to such a treaty.
If you believe these tests should be stopped, I think you should let your representatives in Washington, from the President on down, know how you feel.
The President's Committee on Employment of the Physically Handicapped has enlisted the help of the nation's top cartoonists in a campaign that should be as successful as other government service campaigns they have aided.
Persons who read the comic strips and cartoons even more closely than other material in newspapers and magazines will now become conscious of employment opportunities for the physically handicapped, and I think we should be grateful for the cartoonists' help.
Chairman of the committee is Allen Saunders of Publishers Syndicate. He has gathergathered to help him such able cartoonists as Milton Caniff of the Chicago Sun-Times and King Features Syndicates, Charles Schulz and Al Capp of United Feature Syndicate, Chic Young and Mort Walker of King, Chester Gould of the Chicago Tribune-New York News Syndicate, Scott Long, Earl D. Warren and Walter Lister.
With all this capable help, none of us should be left without the knowledge that handicapped persons need employment and that there are jobs they can fill.
The New York City Ballet presented a memorable production Wednesday evening at the City Center here. It was conceived by Lincoln Kirstein and George Balanchine and called "Panamerica," with Latin-American music for a remarkable ballet program.
In the audience were consuls, ministers and ambassadors from Latin-American countries, and I was only sorry that some of our official members of the United Nations and officials from Washington were not there. If they had been, they would have been amply repaid.
In the field of art, we certainly do not have enough knowledge of our Latin-American neighbors, and we can gain tremendously by learning to appreciate their artists.
(Copyright, 1960, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
