
                  
                     PARIS, Monday.—I am delighted upon returning to my hotel room from either General Assembly meetings or special committee meetings to find fresh, colorful flowers waiting for me. I am finding that I have more friends in Paris than I had realized, and I hope that before too long I shall have a few spare moments to enjoy them.
I am also deeply grateful to the thoughtful people back home who have arranged to provide me with some food items that are certainly a joy to have here where shortages still exist.
I have not yet quite grown accustomed to the use of francs in vast sums, which one must pay out now for each little item. A tip of 100 francs is only somewhere around 33 cents, but nevertheless it seems horribly extravagant to me. The helter-skelter of arriving and getting settled here, however, has somewhat subsided, and as soon as we get our routine better organized we shall not have to have breakfast in our room, for one thing, which should put a check on what looks like our exorbitant living.
Mrs. Warren Austin came here all equipped with an electric plate and coffee and all she needed to provide her own breakfast. But I was too uncertain as to whether our American gadgets would fit the electric current over here, and so I trusted to find some way of getting our breakfast every day.
I hope I shall have time to visit many of my favorite museums and churches while we are here.
The other day, as we passed the Madeleine, I could not quite trust my memory and asked one of the people in our party if that was really the Madeleine.
"Why, yes," he said in an amused tone. "Are you particularly interested in the Madeleine?"
Of course, I could not very well explain that it carried me back to my school days when I really knew and loved Paris.
I was interested to learn yesterday that 56 American organizations, industries, unions and other groups are represented at the General Assembly meetings as observers. Also, I was told that 125 national organizations from the various member-countries are on hand.
These representatives are in large part responsible for the education of the peoples of all their different countries. In many instances these observers are the only couriers of the news about these meetings of this great assembly of nations and many people depend on their reports on the conduct of business of the United Nations and the positions taken by their respective delegates.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC., REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
