
                  
                     CHICAGO, Thursday
                  —Wednesday we spent a busy day in Atlanta, but it was not a day devoted entirely to the purposes of our trip. I did have a press conference and then I did two short question-and-answer recordings on what we were trying to do to further organization for the American Association for the United Nations throughout the country. Miss Linzer spent her whole day in Atlanta working hard, but after a short talk with Lizzie McDuffie, who used to be with us in the White House and whose husband was so long my husband's valet, we went off, first to see the gardens created by Cason Calloway and his wife.
Driving was in itself a revelation. What new roads have been built. It was interesting to see how much new housing has gone up also in Atlanta for Negro people, partly as a result of the new highway being put through which went through some of the worst slum areas.
From an economic standpoint, it seemed that the South has moved forward and is developing rapidly. People are distinctly better off as far as one can tell, and many new industries have been moving in, which has brought an influx of people from all parts of the country. For instance, I was told that a farmer had come in from a western state and was feeding as many head of cattle on 500 acres as he had kept on his western ranch on 5,000 acres. There is much less cotton planted in the fields; there is much more diversified planting today and cattle has come in to an amazing extent.
The Calloway gardens adjoin the Roosevelt State Park near Warm Springs. Mrs. Calloway has directed the development. Wisely, she is fostering wildflowers and the native shrubs and trees and helping nature, but not changing the face of nature. Great lakes have been created for fishing, which is excellent. A remarkable lake for bathing, with a sand beach, has been put in and there is a golf course. A good restaurant and last but not least a superlative country store. They sell all the native products as well as many imported goods. Everyone who goes in is tempted to spend his money.
After lunch on a floating platform which moved us slowly around the lakes as we ate, we went to the knob where I was shown where they propose to build the new Hall of History.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, by UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
