
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N.Y.HYDE PARK
                  —I have been getting a number of letters from South America, including some from newspaper writers in various countries, telling me of their reactions to the feeling now existing on that continent toward the United States.
One letter came from a woman newspaper correspondent, Mrs. Edyla M. Unger, of Brazil. While she says some things that may not be true, I think at least we should be aware of what some people are thinking, so I am quoting what she said in referring to an interview she had with me. She writes:
"During this interview I had the occasion to mention the fact that Latin America resents the friendly attitude of this country (U.S.A.) towards such dictators as Peron, Vargas, Trujillo, Jiminez and several others. Now I am appalled at the extent of this resentment as I read about the deplorable incidents which happened during Mr. Nixon's visit to Peru and Venezuela——.
"Communist exploitation, one of the most frequent explanations, does not cover the whole picture either. The Communists are only exploiting a feeling that already exists—mainly, resentment, as I pointed out before, of the lack of consistency between the principles this country stands for and its dealings with dictators, and the ugly facts of racial prejudice."
I have another letter bringing to my attention a matter which I think is of national interest.
The mother writing to me says that there is a bill HR 10505, which would amend the Social Security Act to provide that the child of a deceased insured individual may receive child's insurance benefits after attaining the age of 18 so long as he is a student regularly attending school.
The mother who writes me is a widow with two boys and she says:
"Realizing that thousands are facing similar problems, I am writing to ask your assistance in giving information about HR 10505 in your column, thus helping to ease this college problem for many young people ... Many of them could make arrangements to attend college if they had the assistance this bill would provide."
Fundamentally, of course, I believe that all young people in our country, who show the capacity, should go to a college or university if they desire, for we waste human material when their education is cut off for financial reasons and the country suffers as much as the young people.
I am glad that the reciprocal trade bill was praised by the Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. And it is also good to note the report that the Democrats have worked hard for this policy, which was inaugurated in a Democratic Administration.
(Copyright, 1958, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
