
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday
                  —Everyone who knew Foreign Minister Jan Masaryk of Czechoslovakia must regret his sudden, tragic death. He had a great heritage and had many friends throughout the world. He lacked the strength of his father, but he acted according to his beliefs, I am sure.
I have seen him speak and vote in the United Nations when I felt that quite obviously he was expressing what he felt was the wisest attitude, under the circumstances, for his country's representative to take, though not always what he himself would have liked to stand for. That was sad but understandable.
I remember hearing before the end of the war that President Eduard Benes felt his country's future lay in conciliation of Russia and in joint economic interests. Certainly both Mr. Benes and Mr. Masaryk did all they could to keep their country free and yet to maintain a friendly and consistently conciliatory attitude toward the USSR.
The theory was entirely correct. Their only mistake was in not judging correctly what the objectives of the USSR would be. The USSR is not content—along her borders, at least—with just a friendly attitude. They want the whole cheese of complete control, and they seem to know how to get it.
Mr. Masaryk was probably a saddened and disillusioned man. How many others will there be in the years to come?
I wonder if the public is aware that under the Federal Security Agency, in the Office of Vocational Rehabilitation, there is a program which helps disabled American civilians to recover and, through care and education, to return to usefulness in the community.
The States, with the assistance of the Federal Government, give the following services to the disabled as a legal right, not as a charity:
(1) A thorough physical examination. (2) Necessary medical, surgical, psychiatric and hospital services. (3) Necessary prosthetic devices. (4) Individual counseling and guidance. (5) Training for a job—in schools, on the job, by correspondence or by tutor. (6) Maintenance and transportation during rehabilitation, if necessary. (7) Necessary tools, equipment and licenses. (8) Placement on the right job. (9) Follow-up to make sure the worker and the job are properly matched.
To be eligible for these State-Federal services, a man or woman must:
(1) Be of work age. (2) Have a substantial job handicap because of physical or mental disability. (3) Have a reasonably good chance of becoming employable or getting a more suitable job through the rehabilitation services.
You can get pamphlets from the Federal Security Agency in Washington, D.C., describing the services for different categories of the disabled.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1948, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
