
                  
                     NEW YORK, Thursday
                  —There was a full gathering in the United Nations plenary session yesterday afternoon to hear our senior delegate, Senator Warren R. Austin, speak. On Tuesday, the Russian Foreign Minister, V. M. Molotov, had impugned our motives in our plan for atomic control and development and attacked Bernard Baruch personally, and, therefore, I felt that his speech lost much of its value. People are rarely convinced by exaggerated and violent statement. So I was particularly pleased at the restraint shown by Senator Austin.
He spoke at once of the things that had been said by Mr. Molotov, but he stressed the fact that we were seeking unity and that recriminations accomplished little. From there on, there was no more notice taken of the attacks made on Tuesday. Senator Austin went in very fully to the whole veto question and I should think that his comprehension on that particular point would be a work of reference from now on.
We did not get away from the session until nearly eight o'clock, and I went directly to Wadleigh High School to speak under the auspices of the Southwest Harlem Neighborhood Council, Inc.
This section of the city is planning to rebuild its whole community, not only in a physical way but also from a spiritual and educational standpoint. The Council wants to encourage people of the community to do things for themselves, and I think their plans might turn out to be a very useful program to start in many other parts of the city. No community can really be better than the people who live in it.
One of my neighbors in Greenwich Village area is the New School for Social Research, which has just elected Charles Abrams and Dr. Channing H. Tobias to the Board of Trustees.
Mr. Abrams, who is a consultant of the Public Housing Authority, inaugurated at the New School for Social Research in 1939 the first coordinated educational housing program in the country. It is a program designed to tell the public about the needs and problems in housing and to train for professional service those wishing to work with city, state and Federal housing authorities.
Dr. Tobias is a trustee of the Phelps Stokes Fund and is widely known for his work in inter-racialinterracial cooperation. For 23 years he has been senior secretary of the Negro department of the YMCA, and serves on the boards of many organizations. He has recently returned from a trip to Africa where he visited Liberia, Sierra Leone, Gold Coast, Nigeria and Belgian Congo.
These two men should make a valuable contribution to the work of the New School.
I have just received a beautiful box of Christmas cards from the American Artists Group, which has arranged a Christmas-card publication of the famous pictures in the Encyclopaedia Britannica collection of contemporary American paintings. The members of this group have been making these cards for the past 12 years and their efforts not only make really artistic gifts but go far in spreading the knowledge of American art throughout the country.

                  Rockwell Kent, who is one of the pioneers in the group, says: "The American Artists Group has brought the artists and the people together on the happiest and friendliest occasion of the year, at Christmas time. It has made the names and works of literally hundreds of American painters familiar to millions of Americans. It is a heartening experience for an artist to know he is functioning for a large audience which enjoys his work."
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1946, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.; REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR PART PROHIBITED.)
