
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —I had a very pleasant day on Wednesday in Greensboro, N.C., where I spoke at a meeting of the American Friends Service Committee. I talked about the role of America in foreign affairs and the outlook for peace in the world. The session was attended by people from the surrounding communities and it was necessary to put a loudspeaker in the hall below the one where I was speaking as well as chairs outside.
I think it is encouraging that all meetings on international affairs, particularly where United Nations activity is to be explained or talked about, are increasingly well attended. This indicates a real interest and appreciation that this is the organization we have to use if we are to try to build an atmosphere for peace in the world.
The trip down to and back from North Carolina was foggy and bumpy, and not what one expects to find in June. Of course, I was very late on the return trip on Thursday and did not get back for a luncheon that I had been looking forward to. I wanted to see the Pitter Bros. display of new furs. There are so many new and wonderful colors that one hardly can recognize the furs we knew by their old names. I would have enjoyed seeing all the latest styles in color and cut, which is an extremely feminine and frivolous desire!
However, my plane was almost two hours late and this particular activity had to be given up. But I was home in time to do a kinescope, and I practically swept the poor CBS people and their machinery out of my house because another group was arriving for tea to talk about the American Association for the United Nations.
In the evening I attended a reception given by the Metropolitan Division of the AAUN in honor of their new honorary chairman, Ambassador Ernest Gross. He made a very interesting and telling speech and I thought it was remarkable that over 700 people attended this reception. Of course, most of them knew they were going to be asked to sign up for work of some kind with the Metropolitan Division or for a contribution as a member.
After the speeches we saw the UNICEF picture done by DennyDanny Kaye during his trip in the Far East where he took the opportunity to visit a number of UNICEF projects. This is called "Assignment Children" and the picture is now available to organizations and groups as a 16 mm. film.
It illustrates well the work that UNICEF does all over the world, even though on this particular journey Danny Kaye only covered India, Japan, Burma and Thailand. I hope someday he will cover countries in South America and Africa and in the Near East, for UNICEF operates all over the world and is helping children in places far from U.N. headquarters in New York.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
