
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday
                  —Back in New York City at 3:30 A.M.a.m. Thursday morning I had a little sleep and then a full day. There is no use ever hoping that one can go away and not return to a desk loaded down with letters to be read and answered and signed.
I didn't get out in the morning until I went to a luncheon to which Averell Harriman had invited a group to discuss the plans for the Jackson-Jefferson Day dinner at which Adlai Stevenson will speak on February 14.
I saw a few people in the afternoon, which gave me only a short time at the office of the American Association for the United Nations, but I did report to Mr. Eichelberger on my trip, at least on such things as affect the AAUN.
There was a delightful little story in one of the papers yesterday evening of how President Eisenhower's brother missed the car which was to take him back to the White House in time for the parade. Hailing a taxi he explained his difficulty and urged speed.
They went past red lights and made U–turns and seemed to be getting away with it until a policeman suddenly appeared alongside the cab. He pleasantly explained that this was not a day for giving out tickets but would the driver take it a little more calmly.
The cab driver identified his passenger and told the whole story, explaining that he had never been to the White House before and this may be his one chance. The policeman said he was in the same boat, for he had never been to the White House either. So, telling the cabbie to follow him, he guided them right into the White House grounds and up to the door. Both the cabbie and the policeman "made" the White House and the President's brother got there in time to see the parade.
That is a nice, human story. And I liked the added note that ex-President Truman had given President Eisenhower the nicest present he received on Inauguration Day—he ordered President Eisenhower's son home from overseas duty for that day.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
