
                  
                     INDIANAPOLIS, Ind.INDIANAPOLIS, Monday
                  —The newspapers have announced the fact that our pilots and planes were airlifting fresh troops from North Africa and France into Indo-China. It is not surprising that Communist China has attacked the United States' foreign policy, but it is curious to find them saying "We certainly will not take it lying down if armed aggression is aimed against us." Why should Communist China feel that the fight against a Communist regime in Indo-China is directed against them?
On my trip last week, I noticed that Indo-China is getting a considerable amount of attention in the Midwest papers, and rightly so, for it is a very important subject to many of us in this country. The other subject that is prevalent is the McCarthy hearings. That seems to cover more space than even the question of Indo-China.
One editorial on the subject of the hearings was extremely good. It pointed out that it was unfortunate that it was McCarthy's own committee and own close colleagues who are sitting in judgment on the Senator and his adversaries. This editorial pointed out that certain procedures bear watching as the investigations proceed. These are the techniques of confusion and evasion; of answering one charge by making another; of emphasizing the irrelevant and avoiding the central issue; of sowing little seeds of suspicion to divert attention from the truth; of badgering and bullying those whose testimony one seeks to discredit.
"We are not suggesting that Senator McCarthy is certain to employ these techniques, but it is surely worth noting that he is a past master of them." That is a good warning and one that all of us who will follow these hearings with interest might well heed.
We have already seen one attack made by the Senator to becloud the questions which he is up against. It was certainly amusing when instead of answering the challenge which was made to him when his accusations were denied and he was asked to shed Congressional immunity and repeat his accusations away from Congress, the Senator only remarked that he did not wish to delay the hearings by court action and so he would not repeat the charges.
These tactics are so familiar that one can smile at them, but they should make us wary.
I reread today Secretary of State John Foster Dulles' report on the Berlin meeting which was published by the State Department. I think that it is a good document to keep handy now that we are going to see the sequel to the Berlin meeting taking place in Geneva.
He tells us that two things were really accomplished at Berlin. First, Mr. Molotov was forced to tell the world what the real Soviet policy was; the price of a unified Germany was a Sovietized Germany; the price of a free Austria was a Sovietizing of Germany and keeping Russian soldiers in Austria and exploiting that country.
The second thing gained was the acceptance that Communist China would not be treated as the fifth great power and would not be recognized by us. Communist China is there as a belligerent to be judged by the world but not as a great power in the world.
(WORLD COPYRIGHT, 1954, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC. REPRODUCTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART PROHIBITED.)
