
                  
                     DALLAS, TexasDALLAS. 
                  —I attended a luncheon Thursday of a small group, many of whom have been active for a long time in the fight against cancer. All were people who knew that cancer research was valuable, and I thought this luncheon was one at which a detailed program and the plans for the new cancer research to be carried on in Denver would be discussed. Presumably, people from the floor would ask what questions they wished, and the public would learn of the plans for this new laboratory.
The speakers were so good, however, that the time was consumed in telling us all how important cancer research was. This is a fact which nobody challenges, but I think there is great interest in knowing in detail what the changes are to be in the Denver Institute, which used to care only for tubercular patients and will now care for cancer cases. What are the plans beyond the breaking of ground for the laboratory building, which will take place on November 16, and how far have future plans of work progressed?
I know it is difficult, until you have a building, to give concrete plans for the work that is to be done within the building. I know that the people working for this Institute have the hope of doing an important segment of work which must go on all over the world if we are going to discover the cause and cure of cancer. As yet, however, I do not think that even the dreams they have for the future are very clear to the audiences who are giving the money on faith alone. I hope, therefore, that they can begin to put clearly before the public how they hope to help in the struggle against cancer, since I know it is necessary for people who are giving so generously to know in detail what those who are asking their cooperation expect to see materialize.
I have been asked to mention that the tenth Annual Convention of the National Federation of Licensed Practical Nurses will take place at the Henry Hudson Hotel in New York, October 19 through October 23. These practical nurses fill a great need. They are trained, and while they cannot give the services of a registered nurse, they can fill a gap in the nursing needs of our communities which badly needs to be filled. The theme of their convention will be "Growth, Progress and Service."
When their federation was established in 1949, only a few states had mandatory or permissive licensure for practical nurses. Now all states have some form of licensure, and in addition many state boards of nurse examiners now have licensed practical nurses as members of the board or of their advisory committee.
There are nearly 30,000 licensed practical nurses in this country. They perform a service to the community which is of great value and which means much to the health of the nation.
(COPYRIGHT, 1959, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
