
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —On Tuesday of this week I attended a luncheon of the Women's Division of the American Jewish Congress and, to my surprise, found myself receiving an award for work done for children. This particular award is a charming old teaspoon made in Israel, which has the first two words of the Ten Commandments inscribed on the handle. It is really a very beautiful and unique possession and I was deeply touched at receiving it.
Late that afternoon I gave a Christmas party for the staff of the American Association for the United Nations. I always enjoy this party very much, and this year it was suggested that I read to them bits from Dicken's "A Christmas Carol," as I had done for the Secretariat of the U.N. Everyone seemed to enjoy it.
On Wednesday we had an executive committee meeting of the AAUN and then Mr. and Mrs. Clark Eichelberger had their annual party for the staff. As often happens in a big city, Mr. and Mrs. Eichelberger are being forced to move because their building is going to become part of a new development. When you have lived for a long time in one place, it always seems tragic to have to give it up, and I think the Eichelbergers felt this party was as much a goodbye party to the apartment as it was a Christmas party!
I am sure everyone would like to congratulate President and Mrs. Eisenhower on the birth of their fourth grandchild. I am a little sorry for the child, however, since we have a few children in our family whose birthdays fall just at Christmastime. I think they often wish their parents could have arranged for more time between these celebrations, since no one seems to have as much time to celebrate the birthdays as they would have if they did not fall within a few days of Christmas.
I'm sure everyone will want to extend sympathy to Adlai Stevenson, whose son was seriously injured in a motor accident on his way home from Harvard University for the Christmas holidays. It was particularly tragic because two of the boys in the car were killed and to their families the Christmas season will always be a saddened time. One other boy seems to have been only slightly injured, and one can only hope that these two boys will recover without any complications. The death of the other two will remain a grief to the survivors for all their lives and one has a deep sense of sympathy for them both.
On Wednesday evening I first had the pleasure of my annual Christmas party with my old friend, Major Harry Hooker, and then went to speak about the U.N. at Joan of Arc High School as part of their Christmas program. The children of the school put on a very delightful program that represented 10 different nationalities and which brought out many different customs.
I was presented with two aprons which some students had made in their sewing project. They are really beautiful. I also was given a wonderful cake, which some students of cooking made.
These children are being trained for practical living and at the same time are learning a great deal about the rest of the world. I would think the children attending this school are particularly fortunate in the type of education they are getting.
(Copyright, 1955, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
