
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —I took a flying trip to Chicago on Thursday and found that the climate can change considerably between here and Chicago. On getting off the plane I was cold without a coat. It had been so warm here that I had not brought one with me!
On the way to my hotel from the airport I had the pleasure of talking with a young German student who is attending Northwestern University. He wanted to consult me about some work he had been doing on a thesis which he has soon to turn in but which he hopes may develop into work for a Ph.D. to be granted him by his own German University if his work here is good enough. He certainly has not been afraid of study and is doing a great deal of research. But I think European education accustoms young people to research and they really enjoy it.
Once at the Blackstone Hotel I had about an hour and a half to rest before we went to a delightful tea party given by Judge Fisher for some of his friends in the interest of the Chicago Committee for the American Association for the United Nations. We spent about an hour and a half with the judge, which I enjoyed very much.
Then I went directly out to the stockyards and found myself in the club which I had visited during the last Democratic National Convention. There is no other floor space in Chicago that would hold the number of people who wanted to attend the dinner of the Founders and Friends of Roosevelt University. Three thousand and thirty-one people were actually at dinner!
During the first part of the ceremony we sat on one side of the great amphitheatre and the program consisted of presenting two awards by the Founders and Friends to Marshall Field and Leo A. Lerner. Both of these men have done much for the growth of the university.
After this ceremony we listened to President Edward J. Sparling, who told about the university, Harold Washington, graduate of 1949, who eloquently related what it meant to be a graduate of the university. Mr. Washington is now assistant corporation councilcounsel of the city of Chicago.
Then we heard from Sandy Lerner, president of the Student Council, who discussed what it means to be a student at the school and how it felt to learn how to live democratically with people of all races and all creeds. Finally, we heard from Mr. Max R. Schrayer, who told the meaning of being a Founder and Friend.
Ten years ago Roosevelt College was born, and this year, for the first time, Roosevelt University was empowered to give honorary degrees.
(Copyright, 1955, United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
