
                  
                     NEW YORK.
                  —Back in New York Tuesday morning I had the pleasure of having Mr. and Mrs. Danny Kaye, together with Mr. Douglas Fairbanks Jr., at lunch with me. My son, James, and his wife had arrived on Tuesday from London and Paris and so we had a very interesting time, mainly discussing American foreign policy.
The Kayes had brought with them an Englishman who was extremely nice but who did not get much opportunity to say anything because the rest of us talked so much. No one who did not insist on breaking in on the conversation had much chance to be heard!
I hope that on some show Danny Kaye tells the audience where he has been in the last two months. It sounds funny as he reels it off but the travel must have been most gruelling.
The thing which appalls me was the endless packing and unpacking of his bag! Perhaps someone was provided to do it for him, but I doubt if that would be very satisfactory, because even the perfect English valet would not always put everything just where one hoped to find it.
This Sunday, December 2, at 5 p.m. the film Danny Kaye made for the United Nations International Emergency Children's Fund will be shown over CBS and it will appear simultaneously in 26 different countries of the world, which is really very remarkable.
It will not be his fault if the people do not become conscious of the work which UNICEF is doing for children in the world, for he certainly has done his share to make it understood throughout the world.
In the afternoon we had an executive committee meeting for the American Association for the United Nations—an interesting meeting but, as usual, it lasted too long and I had to dash home to be ready for an early dinner.
After dinner we went to Town Hall to hear Louis Kentner, the painistpianist, in recital. He is being presented here by Columbia Artists and Wednesday night's recital was his debut in the United States. He was Hungarian-born but became a British citizen, was trained by Budapest's foremost musicians and has appeared all over Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia, and recently in South America.
He and his famous brother-in-law, Yehudi Menuhin, have sometimes appeared together. I am no music critic, but I have never enjoyed an evening more. For me, the highlight of the evening was the Chopin Etudes.
We were seated where we could look down and watch Mr. Kentner's hands and I was fascinated by the way he used them. He is a most delightful person, as well as a finished artist, and I only hope I can see him and his charming wife again while they are here.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
