
                  
                     NEW YORK.—I attended a dinner of the Jewish Welfare Board Saturday evening. It was an unusually crowded affair and I had to leave immediately afterward, since I was driving up to Hyde Park and the weather did not seem too auspicious.
Snow was falling and it melted as it fell until we reached Hawthorne Circle, near White Plains. From then on, slush and snow covered the road. And coming to what we call the mountainous area, where there are some real hills, we began to see cars stopped along the way, unable to go on.
We were lucky in having a good driver. And we spent far longer a time than usual on the road, reaching my cottage well after 1 o'clock in the morning.
Once up in Hyde Park, I began to worry about getting back. And when I got up on Sunday morning to find everything deep in snow, I wondered whether the two groups I promised to meet at the library would be able to get there from New York. I was to greet the first group at 12;3012:30 p.m., after church, and the second one between 2:30 and 3 p.m.
My son, John, really annoyed because only last week he had taken the snowplow off the tractor and put on the scraper, had to scrape rather than plow the snow from the road. We finally got out, but not early enough to go to church, and I telephoned the library, asking that I be informed if either of the groups arrived from New York.
I took my little dog for a walk, but he found it almost as difficult walking as I did and could only go where the scraper had made a path for us.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Harrity were bringing two Danish friends of theirs to luncheon and we found out they were motoring from Larchmont. Being adventurous and hardy Danes, they arrived, but not until 2 o'clock.
As we finished lunch, the library called to say that the group of foreign students had arrived by bus, so I left my guests and went over to greet them. Among the students were representatives of many countries. I hope they found their trip rewarding, for it was undertaken under difficult conditions.
A mixture of snow and rain continued to fall, and my driver felt it would be wise for us to return to New York Sunday evening if I really had to be there Monday morning. So we left Hyde Park at about 5:45 p.m. and came down Route 9 uneventfully. But I cannot say it was a nice spring weekend in the country!
I am worrying about the little bulbs in my garden here in New York. They were well up before the snow covered them and I only hope they survive.
Let us hope that we have seen the last of the snow this season. While I realize we occasionally do have snow at this time of year, I think all of us would be happy to feel we had left winter behind.
(Copyright, 1956, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
