
                  
                     NEW YORK
                  —Friday afternoon I was back at Columbia University for the Student Council, and then attended a tea given by Mrs. William Randolph Hearst, Jr. for our Mayor's U. N.U.N. Hospitality Committee.
That evening I had my annual party for the many cousins on my mother's side of the family. I am particularly happy when the younger members come and when I can corral some of my own family. This year I crowded 21 of us into my tiny apartment for a buffet supper and much talk, trying to catch up with all the things that have happened during the year—for we rarely meet, since only a few of us live in the city where we can come together more often.
Saturday morning early I went out to Idlewild to catch a plane for Baltimore, only to find myself enveloped in fog and no planes leaving. I had to telephone that I could not make my U. N.U.N. date with the U. N.U.N. youth of Maryland, which was a great disappointment to me.
The other day I read in the paper of the death of one of the colorful figures in Hong Kong, Sir Robert Hotung, a Chinese financier and philanthropist who was knighted by the British. He made a trip last year to London to receive the order of Knight Commander of the British Empire from Queen Elizabeth, though he had been a knight since 1915. He was a well-known figure in Hong Kong and no one who visited the city failed to hear about him.
Judging from newspaper accounts, the Soviet delegates did not get a very warm reception in Great Britain from the people, though naturally, as far as the government was concerned, they were received with all the proper recognition. I think it is a healthy thing for the Soviets to come in contact with people in different parts of the world and discover what their real feeling is.
I have just received a copy of "Souvenir," Margaret Truman's own story. It is a good time to have it come out just after her marriage. I particularly enjoyed the photographs and I think the entire story is a charming bit of history. How the White House does affect the lives of young people! How remarkably well Margaret Truman has managed to live her life, nevertheless, and to remain unspoiled, charming and unaffected, and finally to marry with quiet and dignity. I think she achieved a near miracle in her triumph over all the pitfalls that attend young people whose parents have power, who have to live in the limelight, who have great advantages but at the same time great difficulties. I want to join with the many who will send Margaret their good wishes and pray for her happiness in the new life she has now begun.
(COPYRIGHT, 1956, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
