
                  
                     MEEKER, ColoradoMEEKER, Colo.
                  —The last days before one leaves for a trip of a number of weeks are always hurried! Everybody decides to have meetings and one has to see a number of people, besides taking care of personal matters which one always neglects until the last minute.
On Tuesday of last week I spent the afternoon in New York City attending an executive committee meeting of the American Association for the United Nations. In the evening I saw the last of the foreign films entered in the competition for the 1955 Golden Laurel Award to be presented by David O. Selznick. This one on Greece was very interesting. I returned that night to Hyde Park and had a busy day on Wednesday, when the annual picnic took place for the Encampment for Citizenship run by the Ethical Culture Society. This year 28 states and several countries were represented in the group. In the afternoon Roosevelt School also came, bringing 80 of its students. In between times I saw two people who were working over at the library, one on a thesis and one on an article concerning my husband. I had the pleasure also of having Judge Anna Kross, Mr. and Mrs. Borsanger and Fannie Hurst to luncheon.
Thursday saw me back in New York early in the morning to attend a meeting of the Joint Committee of the American Association for the United Nations and the United States Committee for the United Nations. In the evening I attended a picnic in Dutchess County for the World Council and talked on the United Nations and its tenth anniversary.
Friday morning my niece, Mrs. Elliott, and her whole family started off bright and early for the long drive to Limerick, Maine. Soon after they left I came to New York, leaving two rather sad little dogs. My Scotties know when you say good-bye for any length of time and grow rather mournful—particularly Tamas, who is older and has always belonged to me. As there are two of them, however, they keep each other company and they will be well looked after while I am gone. They will also have some of the family occasionally in the house, for I hope that my grandson will spend weekendsweek ends here with other members of the family.
Friday was of course a busy day in New York. I met with some medical students at Dr. Rusk's rehabilitation center, and I worked very hard the rest of the time doing last-minute things one somehow never foresees. I was ready to leave on Saturday morning, however, for Denver, and I look forward with a great deal of pleasure to two weeks vacation with my son, Elliott, and his wife on their ranch near Meeker, Colorado. After that I shall be traveling in leisurely fashion to Bangkok for the World Federation of United Nations Associations meeting. You will be hearing from me on the way, and I hope there will be interesting things to share with you.
(COPYRIGHT, 1955, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
