
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Wednesday—Mrs. June Rhodes, Miss Thompson and I left Mrs. Rhodes' farm in Sergeantsville, N. J., yesterday morning after an early walk to see the cattle. They really have some beautiful stock. The barn was so well arranged I wanted to go back to my childhood and climb up in the hay and go to sleep.
The drive into New York City Tuesday and up the Park-wayParkway to Lake Mahopac, New York, was very lovely, for the trees are changing rapidly. Here and there are maples crowned and tipped with scarlet and on the hillside every color from gold to brown is before you.
We lunched at the Putnam County Country Club in Mahopac and discussed the problem of what the community could do really to understand and help solve unemployment for young people out of school. The role of NYA is increasingly important with the establishment of the new type of training projects. I was glad that a committee was appointed to go into the whole question thoroughly. Afterwards, I spoke to a large group of women on the same subject for a few minutes and Miss Thompson and I reached Hyde Park at four-thirty.
Little Diana Hopkins and her father were there, and this morning they left to take Diana to boarding school.
It seemed as though the telephone rang incessantly after we arrived and several people told me reproachfully that they had been trying all day Monday to reach me and had been unsuccessful.
Speaking of Monday, I neglected to tell you about one or two things in the WPA projects in Scranton which I think might interest you. They have teachers there on one project who visit handicapped children in their homes. We saw one young girl who has been two years in bed with a broken back. She is up with her class and is doing really good work on her typewriter. Best of all, she looks cheerful and happy. This must be due in part to her teacher, though her mother and six brothers and sisters are a great help in keeping her entertained.
The housekeepers' aid project was as good here as it is everywhere. I feel that this could be developed in a great many rural districts as well as cities. The motorcycle policeman who took care of us, turned out to be a second cousin to Mr. Winston Churchill, and he evidently approves of his English cousin and the way the English have behaved in the present crisis.
We left Hyde Park again this morning fairly early for a meeting of the United States Committee for the Care of European Children. The rest of the day seems fairly crowded.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
