
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday—Yesterday I had my first swim in our outdoor pool, and I must say the first plunge was extremely cold. Only the knowledge that my brother and a small boy enjoyed it, kept me in long enough to enjoy it also.
Our son, John, and I rode for an hour in the afternoon. We reached my husband's cottage upon the hill where we found him enjoying peace and quiet, which we disturbed for a few minutes. He has been going through the telegrams and letters which have been coming in the past few days, and it is a most gigantic task.
The woods are still pleasant to ride in, but what will happen in the course of the next week or so, I do not know, for already the bugs are fairly active. The horses can have protection for their heads by wearing large hoods, but their riders will have to take to the fields before long.
We heard last night from Franklin, Jr., that he thought he could fly over this morning from Boston, and since I knew the way to the New Hackensack, New York airport, I agreed to meet him. I rose early to do so, and found it raining this morning. Just before I started out, he called me to say he might be able to go by air to Hartford, Conn., but no further, so would I send some onesomeone to meet him there.
I started off myself for Hartford. I am not as rapid a driver on wet roads as I should be. Perhaps I could never have accomplished what Franklin, Jr,. thought would be my driving time. In any case, it took me nearly three hours and I had to telephone home to ask my luncheon guests to wait. In the meantime, Franklin, Jr., only reached Springfield by air and drove to Hartford from there.
We did reach home about 2:45 and everyone was very hungry. unremarkableI I felt very apologetic to the three people who had motored up from New York City to discuss various things with me, and then found me gadding around the country after my young Naval Reserve officer. However, Frank linFranklin, Jr., has to go back tonight and he may not be home again for a long time, so my apologies were sweetly accepted by everyone. I did enjoy my guests and was most grateful to them for taking the long drive up here.
These visits to Hyde Park are a thrilling adventure to the President's little dog, "Fala." In the first place, he finds it great fun to play with Franklin, Jr., and Ethel's little boy, Franklin, III. Then the two big dogs; the red setter, "Shawn",," and the great Dane, "Sandy",," simply fascinate him. He spends his time trying to attract their attention. Their reaction is great boredom, but this never seems to discourage him.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
