
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Tuesday—Yesterday morning we got word of the death of Mr. Marvin McIntyre who has been friend and associate of the President for many years. He had been ill for some time, but his loyalty and his desire to keep on working were so great that he was in the office only a few weeks ago. He enjoyed life and made others enjoy it. Many will miss him.
For my husband it will be one more loyal friend gone. I know that these losses are the things one cannot replace in life, which make the years grow heavier as you grow older. I am glad that "Mac" had the joy of grandchildren before he died, and that Mrs. McIntyre has her family to help her through these difficult days.
I lost another old and very dear friend yesterday. Many people who worked for the League of Women Voters in the early 1920s will remember Miss Elizabeth Read and the help she gave us on the legislative committee in this state. That was my first opportunity to work with her. Ever since that time she and her friend, Miss Esther Lape, have been close and dear friends of mine.
Miss Read was one of the rare people who was a loyal friend but at the same time an honest one. I always felt that she would be critical, but critical with a desire to help you to do the best you could.
Her standards of work and action were high, and I have always been humbly grateful that she gave me her friendship. She has been ill for some time, but it is her friends who grieve now that she is gone. Elizabeth herself will meet with courage and a high heart whatever is to come.
Though the day had been filled with such sad news, I went to the African Dance Festival at Carnegie Hall last night because many weeks ago I had promised to go. It was to me a very interesting occasion. I had never before thought of drums as a means of communication. Somehow it had slipped my mind that they are really the oldest language in the world, until I saw the people actually talking to each other on the drums on the stage last evening.
The opera, which was written to present courtship and a marriage ceremony, was very charming. The chief singer, who had studied at the London Conservatory of Music, had a lovely voice. The girl dancers were graceful and very expert. Mr. Dafora has made his country's dances familiar to many in this country. In some parts of the performance I felt as though I was looking at an old Egyptian picture. The color and rhythm of the evening remains with me as a very vivid impression.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
