
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday—Friday night I attended a dinner in New York City for the American Friends of German Freedom. As usual, Dr. Frank Kingdon was a delightful chairman. It was encouraging to find that people, who had recent contacts with Germany, felt that there were many people there waiting, longing and working for freedom from Nazi rule.
Early Saturday morning, we motored up to Hyde Park and, in spite of the fact that the trees there are bare and the color is gone, it was a very lovely drive and the country is still beautiful and the weather mild. I like the country in all kinds of weather, so I am not too critical and would probably tell you that it is beautiful at every season.
After lunch, I went down to listen to some of the speeches and discussions at the conference at Vassar College on morale in the army camps and the colleges' responsibility. The conference was held under the Auspicesauspices of the Vassar Political Association and the International Student Service.
In the evening, I went back again to hear Dr. Hans HaberHabe, author of "A Thousand Shall Fall",," and other novels, give a most interesting lecture on his observations in France and morale in Europe. The evening ended with a very well acted living newspaper skit on the draftee in camp. Forty-three delegates came from other colleges to this conference and some 15 colleges were represented.
This morning, Congressman and Mrs. Tom Eliot, who are staying with me, drove over to the library and they are now wandering aroundenjoyingaround enjoying the country. He gave a very good talk at Vassar yesterday afternoon. Both he and Mrs. Eliot seemed to enjoy the discussions and the evening entertainment.
After lunch, we shall all be wending our way back to Washington, though I shall have to stay in New York City until fairly late, because I not only have my regular broadcast at 6:45 but I have a broadcast for CivlianCivilian Defense at 10:30 with Mr. Clifton Fadiman. I shall take a plane to Washington and a train from there to Greenville, N. C. where I must be tomorrow for a lecture.
May I remind you that the American Red Cross is now having its annual roll call and that their objective is to double the membership. They are going to try "to see all the people",," but if they don't happen "to see" you, be sure that you see them, for the work that they are doing is needed all over the world.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
