Friday afternoon Miss Lena MasdenMadesin Phillips who is President of the International Business and Professional Women brought to see me, Miss Gordon-Holmes who came over from England for the Convention held in Atlantic City by the Business and Professional Women. The International Federation is the largest group of its kind in the world, having about two hundred thousand members in two thousand individual organizations. The Federation has fostered the world over, the interests of business and professional women and at the same time has taken a greangreat interest in equalizing the status of women throughout the world. This year it is inaugurating a world-wideworldwide campaign to secure the appointment and election to public office of a larger number of qualified women.
Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher Collins also tocame to tea. He did a wonderful piece of work in the field of English, Dramatics and Music in the Arthurdale, West Virginia School and he is now working in a small college in North Carolina on a very interesting educational project. He has been studying folk sancesdances and ballads and songs all through the eastern states. His wife sang for us two different variations on the same theme which they had found in different places and I think they are discovering some very interesting historical material.
Most of yesterday was spent at Vassar College. In the afternoon there was a delightful gathering in my honor, during which President MacCracken and I carried on over the air a conversation which could not have been of very great interest to the small fry playing around on the grass in front of us. They were the children of the members of the Euthenics Course, and I thought proved the value of their training by the fact that they were really quiet and managed to amuse themselves during what must have seemed an endless program without interest to them!
Judge and Mrs. Charles Poletti, who are occupying the Warden's house on the Campus this summer, invited a large group to tea after the meeting. Mrs. Poletti attends the course in Euthenics as that was the condition on which she obtained the house!
We had time afterwards to come home and dress and eat our dinner, incidentally to cook it, for my faithful colored cook is having a week-endweekend in New York. We are having a grand picnic looking after ourselves. It is a very good thing now and then to fuss around in your own kitchen, but I am wondering if she will be able to put her hands on anything when she returns now that I have put everything where I can put my hand on it!
Back to Vassar in the evening to see a really exciting play, given by the Federal Summer Theatre which has been working for six weeks at Vassar College. It is one of the series of living newspaper plays and is called "One Third of the Nation".." Next week I think it will be in New York and similar plays on subjects pertinent to various localities will be given throughout the country. I hope they will interest other people as much as this play interested me.
