
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Wednesday—A young Korean girl, Miss Grace Kim, brought me a silk flag yesterday as a token of the devotion which the Korean people feel to the cause of liberty. I could not help thinking of some of the propaganda in this country, inspired of course, by the Japanese Government, which has tended to make people feel that race equality would be immediately recognized in any realm under Japan's control.
The Koreans would like to bear witness to what it means to be under Japanese control. Race equality does not enter into it. A subjugated race does not have a happy time.
My Latin-American student guests turned out to be mature men and women, many of whom are already practicing their professions. They had come here to Columbia University to make more contacts and to gain knowledge on some very specific points which would increase their usefulness.
One young woman is a surgeon and wishes to perfect her technique so astoas to return to work among the women of her country. There was a teacher studying methods of instruction, a civil engineer who also taught and was much impressed by our abundance of laboratories.
All in all, it was an interesting group, but one which I should think would mean much more specialized work for Columbia University. In many cases, people in the community have had to be drawn in to provide the special experience needed.
Mrs. Enit Kaufmann, sent by Mrs. Dorothy Canfield Fisher, brought me some photographs of her water color portraits. She is a charming person, a refugee, who in gratitude for what this country has meant to her, wishes to make a portrait record of the people in this period who have contributed something to the life of the nation.
Mrs. Kaufmann will deposit this record in one of the museums, so that in years to come, people can see the soul of those who lived through this period, because she claims that only a painting can show what a subject is really like. The artist certainly has done some very charming things and I hope she will have an opportunity to achieve her objective.
Last night I went to a concert given by the Philadelphia Orchestra, conducted by Eugene Ormandy. Efrem Zimbalist, the violinist, was the guest artist and played the Brahms Concerto in D Major very beautifully. I have never before heard Moussorgsky'sMussorgsky's "Pictures At An Exhibition".." I enjoyed it very much, especially the "Ballet of Chicks In Their Shells." Every child should have that particular bit of music on a record and I understand it is available.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
