
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday
                  —Last night we held the last state dinner of the season, given in honor of the Speaker of the House and Mrs. Bankhead. After it we had a delightful concert. I particularly enjoyed Mr. Carl Friedberg's selections. He played Chopin's Nocturne in F. Sharp and the Waltz in C. Sharp Minor, both of which are favorites of mine. The Drane sisters, who play the violin, and Miss Lois Bannerman, who plays the harp, are charming young artists and make a most pleasing picture on the stage. Youth is always appealing, and when you add talent plus beauty and charm, you are sure to have a sympathetic audience.
Senorita MontalcaMontalva, who danced for us, had fire and rhythm in every movement. Her costumes were enchanting and if my own reactions were at all those of my guests, I am sure all had a pleasant evening.
Our perfect spring weather continues. I spent an hour and a quarter riding along the Potomac this morning and returned to a large formal luncheon. One or two of my guests were laid low by accidents or illness. One of them sent me a poem which I much enjoyed and read to the assembled company. I am quoting it here, not because it is great poetry, but because I think you will get as much amusement out of it as I did.
You may be sure an invitation will be awaiting this particular guest on her recovery.
This afternoon the National Youth Administration Advisory Committee is meeting here at 4:00 o'clock. After a cup of tea, we will go over to the President's office for the annual meeting with him. Here, the Committee has an opportunity to bring up any questions which they think should come to his notice and he has an opprtunity to ask any questions which are on his mind.
There are two representatives from youth groups on this Committee. Yesterday I had the opportunity of meeting one of our N.Y.A.NYA boys who has been chosen as a Rhodes scholar. We feel the honor reflects the calibre of young people who are taking advantage of the help which the Youth Administration can give them.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
