
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—Tuesday morning saw us up and on our way by 6:00 o'clock, in spite of the fact that Monday had been a very busy day. Flying certainly does make a difference in the distances one can cover. Even though my husband does find flying over the clouds rather uninteresting, I must register my own enjoyment of what always seems to me like an exciting new world of soft white fleece, with dark caverns opening up in spots, and rearing horses or curling waves in other places. In fact, I can imagine almost anything where the tops of clouds are concerned.
I reached New York City in time to have two young naval officers lunch with me. I had two appointments in the afternoon, and then a friend dined with me. A group of young people came in later to discuss a variety of new occupations which they have entered upon.
I have a great admiration for the way in which these youngsters tackle new jobs, whether it is going into the Army, Navy or Air Force, or becoming a secretary in a new office, or going into a factory for the first time.
Over and over again, I wish I had lived at their age in as free a world and had had the benefit of the variety of experiences which is theirs today.
Back in Washington this morning, I found a good many plans to readjust.
Madame Chiang Kai-ShekKai-shek is to arrive this afternoon and will be our guest. I am looking forward to her visit not only with pleasure, but with great interest. I think any woman in this period must have a special feeling for this very beautiful, very charming, very gentle woman. She has managed to live through such years of hardship and to share so completely with her countrymen, that her husband not only considers her his partner, but the people consider her their representative.
In talking to her you know that she has suffered with those who have suffered and that she never has been content merely to contemplate a situation, but has always tried to do something about it. One of the most charming pictures of her which I have seen, was taken in one of the Chinese homes for orphans, where children are fed, clothed and educated. Evidently Madame Chiang comes to visit them. They seem to recognize in her that quality of loving kindness, which is one of her great ssets.assets
The President and I are going down to the railroad station to meet her. On her return, I imagine that Madame Chiang will want to have a cup of tea and rest, since tomorrow will be a busy day for her.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
