
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday—Yesterday afternoon the rain came down and made the ceremony at the Girl Scout'sScout "Little House" a trifle damp for everyone. We went out to the garden and watched the girls cooking under real difficulty, but the plate of food they handed me was very good. I took a taste of each thing and then passed my plate along to Father Moore, who had left the NYA Advisory Committee Meetingmeeting with me to see the girls at work.
We visited all the different branches of work, saw the first aid class in action, girls knitting, making pottery, cooking and, finally, returned to the living room, where a group of colored Girl Scouts were singing charmingly. After listening to one or two songs, and admiring their chart for health and morale, Mrs. C. Leslie Glenn, representing the National Girl Scouts, presented Father Moore with the Girl Scout Medal.
They have given the medal this year to four men who have been of great assistance to the organization, and one of their officers has been designated to present it. In this case, since Father Moore was here yesterday, Mrs. Glenn, who had been chosen to present him with this medal, pinned it on his clerical coat.
He was really touched and came back with me to the White House, wearing it proudly. Even though I gave him my plate of food, because he had worked through his luncheon hour and had had no food, I found that he was quite ready to have a cup of tea with us on our return. BYBy the time we came back to the NYA National Advisory Committee Meetingmeeting, they were nearly finished with their afternoon session and adjourned until the evening.
We had a very pleasant small group of people gathered together for dinner. They were shown a ten minute film of the taking of a poll, which was interesting in showing the variety of people who are sampled in trying to arrive at an accurate estimate of public opinion.
Then, with the President, I went over to the Navy Day dinner to hear him deliver his speech. A little while back, he had shown me both of the documents which he mentioned in it. I must say that the map was truly impressive, the boundaries so efficiently laid out and the names of the countries all changed to German.
The Duchess of Windsor is coming this morning to our Civilian Defense Office and returning to the White House with me before I leave for Chicago, where I have to keep an engagement for a regular lecture.
Thursday night, I shall be in New York City to speak for the PublicProgressive Education Association. The theme of their meeting is truly significant these days, for "Faith In Our Free Schools" is certainly part of faith in all our freedoms.
COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
