
                  
                     Los Angeles, Calif.LOS ANGELES, Thursday—The transition from the more or less mountainous and arid land of northern New Mexico and the dry desert land, to the land of the flowers, is always rather breath-taking. Southern California, where there is water, is a paradise of gardens. That is what greeted our eyes this morning.
Our train journey is nearly over and we shall soon be in Los Angeles. I have used this trip to go through many things which have been in my brief casebriefcase for future mention when there was space in my column, and I am horrified to find how many should have been mentioned long ago.
One, for instance, is a comic magazine, which everyone of us with youngsters who like to read the comics, should hail with joy. It is called "True Comics" and is published by the Parents Institute. Its quality is assured by the fact that Mr. George J. Hecht is the president and publisher, while the editor is Mr. David Marke. But your children will be most interested in the junior advisory editors; Janet Cantor, Gloria Jean, Mickey Rooney, Shirley Temple and Virginia Weidler ought to be able to unremarkableto help make this a really good comic magazine.
Here we are in the midst of "Be Kind to Animals Week" and I always like to remind my readers of it. This year there is a special reason for mentioning it, because April 22nd marked the 75th anniversary of the first meeting in New York City of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I was amused to find that among the charter members and the incorporators of the Society; were two of my ancestors, James J. Roosevelt and C.V.S. Roosevelt, who met and elected Henry Bergh as the first president. This society has done valiant work through the years  to make us all more conscious of our debt to dumb animals. I hope it will continue to remind every new generation of its responsibility toward creatures, who give them so much and ask so little.
Some time ago I read an editorial about a fund established in 1919 in England called: "The Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund." This fund exists for the relief of distress among all ranks of the Royal Air Force, past and present, and their dependents. There is an America,American Committee which is a branch of the original British Committee, known as the Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund of the USA, Inc, with offices in New York City. I hope this committee will receive our support and that something of the same kind will be done for our own airmen.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
