
                  
                     CHICAGO, Monday—This afternoon I am speaking for the War Savings Bond Committee.  All I shall have to do is to congratulate them on the marvelous work they have accomplished.  Selling only "E" bonds, they have managed to sell for the past 40 days, a million dollars worth of bonds a day.  This is a record which does not seem to require any stimulus.
It seems as though good records are being made everywhere.  Earlier this month, I heard of a speaking engagement in Syracuse, N.Y., which was arranged by a lecture manager late in February.  The lecturer, Cecil Brown, gave three lectures before he came to this evening lecture, which climaxed a bond selling week where tickets were only obtainable through the sale of war bonds.
By their admissions alone, they raised $187,000 that night, and after his lecture 11 autographed copies of his book, "Suez to Singapore," were auctioned off and brought a total of $102,000 in war bonds.  One single copy brought a total of $100,000 in bonds.  I think this is a pretty good record for a speaker in one evening.
Perhaps one of the great factors in the comparative ease with which the bonds seem to sell, is the campaign carried on through very attractive posters which come out every month.  I have just seen one for April, by Alexander Brook.  It is called, "Remember Me?  I was at Bataan."
On Bataan Day at the Brooklyn, N.Y. Museum, there is to be an exhibition "Art for Bonds," and the original painting for this particular poster will be the feature.  April 9th will inaugurate a campaign for the selling of bonds in Brooklyn.
Many of you will probably feel with me the strength and beauty of this poster, but also its grim horror. Some, I fear, will never forget our unpreparedness at Bataan and the men who paid the price. This is certainly a poster which few people will forget and which will lead to much discussion. I am sure it will stimulate the buying of bonds.
Have you seen the little publication of the National Committee on the Housing Emergency called "Tomorrow's Town?" I was much impressed in the summary of the British Uthwatt report. This report was made to the British parliament by a committee called "the expert committee on compensation and betterment." of which Sir Augustus Andrewes Uthwatt is chairman.
It is evident that no setup for the future development of land could be similar in the United States, but, nevertheless, the mere fact that a committee was appointed to consider the planning of the afterwar housing and the proper use of land is vastly encouraging.

