
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday—Wednesday afternoon, after a day spent in the Office of Civilian Defense, and an hour or so which I stole to do such little jobs as going to the hairdresser, Mrs. Helm, Miss Thompson and I ended up at the WPA art project. The District of Columbia has a corner of this national exhibition, and the children have a section all to themselves.
I think I was more impressed by the marionettes than by any other work done by the children. Certainly the District is developing into a very good art center. They have some good paintings and sculpture, as well as some excellent craft workcraftwork on exhibition. The national show, off course, has artists exhibiting from every part of the country.
There were two things which I liked very much, a Gloucester moonlight picture, and a water colorwatercolor near the door, done by a Chinese--AmericanChinese-American boy, Don Kingman, of San Francisco.
Thanksgiving Day was quiet. We are all very glad to have Diana Hopkins here, otherwise we would have no children in the house. Diana arrived home from school on Wednesday for the Thanksgiving vacation. I suggested that the pony be ridden today, and she seemed to think it would be one of the pleasant things to do.
A number of friends, besides our son, Jimmy, and his wife, will be here for dinner tonight. After dinner, Mr. Arthur Menken is going to show his very delightful travel pictures. The President is never very interested in seeing pictures of a place which he has once visited, because he has a photographic memory and never forgets the "lay of the land" when he has once seen it. He was thrilled, however, at the idea of seeing pictures of so many countries he has never visited, and I am sure we shall be also.
It is curious to have a day which is entirely free of engagements until tea time, but I am devoting it to preparing for Christmas! I have had very little time to do much checking of my Christmas lists, but, by the time this day is over, I shall know exactly what I need to buy.
I am afraid this is going to be a very quiet Christmas in the White House with very few children to entertain us. As far back as I can remember, there have always been children around and I hope that we shall at least have Diana Hopkins here. Perhaps we may find some child who is not going home to come to celebrate with her.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
