
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday —Last evening I enjoyed very much meeting
with Dr. Davenport's interns from the National Institute of Public
Affairs, who have been coming every year to spend an evening with me
while they are here at work.
Tonight I am having a dinner for the Prime Minister of Australia
and Mrs. Curtin. When I was in Australia, I was not able to meet
Mrs. Curtin because she was at her home in Perth on the west coast,
and travelling for civilians was almost impossible. When I hear
people complain here, I often wonder if they realize that in Australia,
which is as large as the United States, only one train and
two planes a week were used for civilian transportation last summer.
They carried 16 and 21 passengers respectively.
Of course there is some difference in the size of population,
but we have sent many soldiers into Australia, and that adds a considerable
amount to their transportation difficulties.
Mr. Curtin was so kind to me that I was very happy to have this
chance to see him again and to meet Mrs. Curtin, and I hope that we
shall see both the Prime Minister of New Zealand and the Prime Minister
of Australia on their return from Great Britain.
I was reminded by the American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals that this is the week which they designate as
"The Be Kind to Animals Week." To most of us in this country, it
hardly seems possible that we need such a reminder, because the boys
in our armed forces are notoriously devoted to pets of every kind.
They have mascots for bomber groups, mascots on ships, and wherever
they go, they pick up some animal which they can train and "be
kind to."
On the other hand, sometimes one sees sad things done unthinkingly,
such as when families move away leaving their cats and dogs
uncared for and homeless. I think that all children should be made
to feel that if they have pets it is not just for their own
pleasure, but that there is an obligation to take proper care of any
animal and to train it so that it will not be a nuisance to other
people.
We are approaching the end of April, and I am reminded by some
friends in Buffalo, N. Y.N.Y., who run the committee there for Russian
War Relief, that they have had a campaign this month to fill
35,000 kits for Russian housewives. These are direct gifts from the
American housewife to a housewife in Russia. They contain things
that are very scarce in Russia, but which we here are still able to
obtain, and I hope that this particular campaign will go over
successfully not only in Buffalo, but all over our country.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
