
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday—Ever since Friday we have been anxiously waiting for more news of the survivors from our torpedoed destroyer. Evidently the seas were high and the rescue of the men was very difficult, but one continues to hope the search for them will save more.
Miss Thompson and I caught the 4:30 plane on Friday for New York City. We were joined there by Mrs. Helm, and after dining at the house, drove up to Hyde Park.
It was raining fairly hard, but I liked the sound of it as I sat on my porch and rejoiced in the country quiet. I was sorry, however, to wake to a gray day and steady downpour on Saturday, in spite of the fact that we need rain badly.
At 10:00 o'clock, I met the Prime Minister of Canada, Mr. Mackenzie King, and Princess Juliana of the Netherlands, with her two children, at the Poughkeepsie Station. They settled down very quickly, and at 12:00 o'clock, our two small granddaughters, Sara and Kate Roosevelt, who are staying with friends in Rhinebeck, came down to lunch with the two little Princesses.
The rest of us, with the addition of Secretary and Mrs. Morgenthau, and several girls and their friends from Vassar, intended to have an outdoor picnic, but we ended by using the new playroom. It proved a great success and after lunch we sat around the fire and asked the President, the Prime Minister and the Secretary of the Treasury, innumerable questions.
We all argued with each other, which always brings out many points of view. Since Vassar is at present having a conference on the post-warpostwar world, there was much talk of both present and future defense. The rain was forgotten and I think, perhaps, it even added to the sense of companionship, for a gray outer world makes one all the more conscious of a fire and cheerfulness within.
After tea at the big house, the Vassar guests were taken back to College. We had no guests for dinner and the President and the Prime Minister settled down to a long talk. The ladies chatted for a little while and then I sat down to quantities of mail. It still had remained unfinished, even though I had tried to snatch a little time here and there during the day, and had succeeded in signing the letters which had been sent up for signature.
This morning dawned clear and beautiful. The reflection of the early morning light was almost as colorful as a sunset. I was up early, for there is some work to be done before we all go to the Dutch Reformed Church for the morning service.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, YBY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
