
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Thursday—This is Pearl Harbor Day, and for three long years, now, we have been at war.
The summary of war news makes us realize how far we have come in military power during these years, and yet the appeal for more production at home is a sign that we have not yet grasped the fact that the war is not yet won. The casualties today on every fighting front are heavier than they have been at any previous time. The weight of sorrow, the hardship of long separation, are still realities to many men and women. Let us put aside the thought that post-war readjustments are imminent, and devote ourselves to war situations as they are before us today.
Yesterday afternoon I went to Philadelphia, and enjoyed very much attending a meeting at which ex-Governor Pinchot presided. He organized the independent voters' groups, in the last campaign, which worked together in Pennsylvania for the election of President Roosevelt.
In a number of places in and around Philadelphia, these groups are now meeting together and planning what their future shall be. I think many people who never before worked in a political group found interest and satisfaction in the work of the past campaign. People met each other who had not before known of each other's problems and interests, and there seems to be a real desire to continue the association. If it works out into real activity in civic affairs, with an interest in all problems, local, state and national, as they arise, it will certainly be a very great gain to democracy as a whole.
I have received a copy of the American Bible Society's statement of the war emergency and post-warpostwar rehabilitation requirements for the Bible. The Society is trying to raise $2,500,000 beyond its regular budget during the next four years, and it is also planning to raise its regular budget during this same period by $702,000. They say that this additional money is needed so that enough Bibles may be printed to meet the needs of men and women all over the world.
They are forecasting what will be needed after the peace in countries which have been ravished by the war, but they feel that above all other books, this Bookbook must be furnished now to men and women in the services, to prisoners of war, and to civilians at home in every country which can be reached. Later, of course, there will be great demands for the Bible by churches and ministers as they try to rebuild their congregations in war-torn countries.
There are few of us, I think, who will not want to give something toward meeting this need. It is a real need, for since time immemorial, almost everyone has found some particular part of the Bible to carry a message of comfort which they want to read and re-read in times of stress.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
