
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Monday—On Saturday I met with a number of people at my apartment in the New York City, who wanted to talk over a variety of things. I think my most unusual visitors were Mr. Hans Meyer and Mr. Guy Johnson. They come from a group who believe in living, here and now, in real brotherhood.
For the moment, while the Government of England understands their position, the people about them are making their community life somewhat difficult, for they have every nationality in the community in order to show that there really is a brotherhood of man. You make no committmentcommitment as to any special religion in joining them, you simply are willing to live according to their theories of government.
South Dakota has a similar community, but they are somewhat withdrawn from the other people of the neighborhood. The English group wishes to bring over its members to join those in this country. It is evident that they would be model citizens and their conception of democracy is certainly a pure and practical one. But even these two men with fine, calm faces, agreed that community living was not without its problems. I wonder if it will be easier in South Dakota than in England. I hope so, for they could not fail to be a good influence.
After attending the opening at a department store of designs for household furniture which various American artists had made, I left New York City in a cheerful mood. This work is going to bring taste and beauty to the people in the country because it is with- inwithin the price range that many can afford. I wish them great success in what is a commercial venture, but at the same time, an artistic one.
Saturday night, to our great joy, James, Elliott and Ruth, and Franklin Jr., and Ethel, were all here for their grandmother's birthday celebration. Our other guests were Mrs. J. R. Roosevelt, Miss Laura Delano, Mr. Langdon P. Marvin, Jr., and Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. It was a happy family gathering and I hope there will be many more similar ones.
Elliott has decided to go into the Air Corps for the duration of the emergency and his brothers are trying to figure out with his various business commitments, for it is a little disrupting completely to change your life. Today he receives his orders in Washington and will know the exact date when he must report for duty in Dayton, Ohio.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
