
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Wednesday—I forgot to tell you yesterday that I came to New York City in the morning and had the pleasure of seeing Mrs. Henry Morgenthau, jrJr.. who really seems better. She must still stay some time in the hospital, but I think she is on the way to recovery, which is a great relief to all of us.
The last few days in the country were very delightful. Judge and Mrs. Samuel Rosenman have taken a house not very far away from us this summer, and we enjoyed going up a very steep hill to pay them a call one afternoon, and I think they have one of the most beautiful views from their terrace in all Dutchess County.
Someday I am going to live a life of leisure, but so far I never find that I do half the things I want to do in a day. I am here in the country and I have to acknowledge that if someone were to ask me what I was doing, I should have to say, practically nothing! Nevertheless the fact remains that the mail can take considerable time every day, and reading the papers and enjoying what youthful guests turn up and occasionally talking to a few adults who appear, as well, with just a little reading thrown in, seems to fill a day.
Of course, I have not mentioned that we swim and lie in the sun every day and that we do take a little exercise and see something of our neighbors, either on foot or on a bicycle. But I always wonder where the time goes and why it is so late at night when I finally go to bed!
Tomorrow, on the 8th of July, the Women's Bureau of the Department of Labor will celebrate its twenty-fifth anniversary. It is interesting to realize that this Bureau was established in 1918, when the Department of Labor was only five years old. It was then a temporary "Women in Industry Service," which was created to meet the need for obtaining women to fill the jobs vacated by men who had been drafted. Miss Mary Anderson succeeded Miss Mary van Kleeck as the first director in August, 1919, and the service became a permanent agency by Act of Congress in June, 1920. Labor bodies and women's organizations and agencies concerned with social progress worked hard to obtain this Bureau which was "to investigate and report on all matters concerning the employment of women, to formulate policies and standards to promote women's welfare, to improve their working conditions, to increase their efficiency, and so develop opportunities for their possible employment."
Everyone who wants to know anything about women in industry today, turns to Mary Anderson and this Bureau. It has become an important and active agency and all we can do is to wish it equal success for the many years which lie ahead.
(Copyright, 1943, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
