
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—Looking back over my trip to South America,
I want to tell you today about my brief visit to Dutch Guiana and my
trip from there to Brazil.
My few hours in Dutch Guiana were all spent at Zandrey Field,
where we landed. This is about 30 miles from the city of Paramaribo,
and I think it must be a rather lonely place, though they tried to
give our men stationed there good recreational facilities.
I was sorry our schedule did not give us time to go into the city,
near which we have a fairly large military establishment. There we
have a USO club which is visited by the men from Zandrey Field whenever
they can get in, but is primarily used by our servicemen stationed
nearer town.
His Excellency the Dutch Governor and a number of officials came
out to greet me and went with me to visit all the various field
activities. Afterwards, there were some formal ceremonies at which a
few of our men paraded with some Dutch units. I was particularly interested
to meet the head of the Dutch WACS in this colony and to see
one of their battalions parade.
After lunch, we took off for Belem, Brazil. For hours we flew over
dense jungle and finally over the mouth of the Amazon, which has
formed many islands because of the silt which makes it a muddy river.
The Para River, which we crossed just before landing, is really just
the southern mouth of the Amazon.
I was impressed by the difficulties which have been overcome in the
building of facilities in the jungle. It grows up so fast and
encroaches on cleared land so quickly that it requires constant vigilance
to keep it down, and yet, around our military areas, they have
even managed to do very efficient malaria-control work. There is comparatively
little illness among our men and the climate must be
fairly healthy in spite of the humidity.
It was early autumn there, since we had crossed the equator, and
it was the end of the rainy season. During the rainy season, it rains
six or seven times a day at other times, only about once a week.
Our men there are homesick, of course, but many of them told me
that they were much impressed by the possibilities that the country
offered for development. One of them told me he felt sure there were
rich iron ore deposits and that anything we grew in the United States
would grow there almost continuously the year round. Perhaps this is
one of the areas where displaced populations can settle in the future.
At Zandrey Field in Dutch Guiana, it seemed a little odd to be
walking along a path made of material which is rich in bauxite, and
the Governorgovernor told me afterwards that that particular material was
their greatest contribution to the war effort.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
