Eight thirty this morning saw me in the President's car, starting for Bayonne, New Jersey. It was a cold and blowy drive in the open car, but the air was nice, and the day clear and sunny. We went along quietly until we were almost there, when a motor cycle policeman recognized us and started out ahead blowing his siren, which immediately brought recognition and people began to call out and to wave to me. We reached the station and waited for about twenty minutes before the train drew in.
I got on board and had a few hurried words with the party. The crowd around the station was great and my husband, the Mayor, Dr. Dunnigan, and I got into the car and stopped just long enough for a few words of greeting.
It was a friendly enthusiastic crowd that we motored through on our way to the bridge leading over to Staten Island. There the Mayor of Bayonne left us, and Governor Lehman and Judge Freestone joined us. We drove across Staten UslandIsland, again receiving a warm welcome and took the ferry to Brooklyn.
Judge Freestone having left us, Mayor LaGuardia joined us as we landed in Brooklyn. Here again we passed through crowds of people until we reached the new buildings for Brooklyn College.
It is amusing to watch the houses as one goes past, for people hang out of the windows expressing in their enthusiasm in different ways. I looked into one window and saw a gentleman partly hidden by two ladies who evidently had called him to come at once, for his face was completely covered with lather. His shaving had evidently been interrupted at a very awkward moment!
The Mayor left us and Mr. Kelly joined us in the car for the rest of our drive through Brooklyn and I was interested to see the school in Williamsburg, and the Williamsburg housing project, though we did not have time to stop at either one.
We drove straight to the ferry for Governor's Island and there I left the party, being taken back in state to my luncheon engagement in the Police Commissioner's car. However, the police sign was taken off and we obeyed all the rules and used no siren so I was happy.
We certainly travelled through the enemy's territory on our way to the ferry and while the streets were very full and there were many waves and cheers, there was no lack of boos which amuedamused me a good deal, for I rather think that that kind of demonstration is an asset in certain ways. After all the whole world can't think and feel alike!
