
                  
                     Seattle, Wash.SEATTLE, Tuesday—I spent all day yesterday at the hospital. On returning there this morning, I was glad to find that all was going well with my daughter. No one feels very comfortable 24 hours after any operation, but when the doctor is satisfied, the family feels cheerful, even if the patient can't rise to the same sense of satisfaction.
I wish very much that the children's paintings, which I saw on exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, could be sent to other cities throughout the country. The little refugees cared for by the Quakers in camps and schools in various parts of Europe, have done some very interesting work.
Some of their paintings are somber, a few reflect the war scenes these youngsters have lived through, but, considering the fact that so many of them have come from bombed cities in France or other parts of Europe; it is remarkable how cheerfully some of them paint their new surroundings. They seem to lose themselves in country joys.
If this exhibit, which closes March 18th in New York City, could be shown in different parts of the country, I think it might inspire in many people the realization of what may be accomplished by feeding, clothing and housing children away from the horrors of war. Just a little security and enough to eat can do so much for the next generation. So, whenever the opportunity comes to us, let us help those who help the children.
Yesterday, with the greatest interest, I read the "Survey Graphic" for March, entitled "Fitness For Freedom." The opening article, entitled "Health Front In a People"sPeople's War",," by Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, should not be missed. I want to bring one quotation to you here:
"There are those who tell us that long range planning is irrelevant to the present issue—that we should think at the moment of nothing but winning the war. There are others who see in the war emergency a golden opportunity to serve their own vested interests and to get rid—as they hope, for all time—of all this socialistic nonsense.
"There have been wars in the past in which this happened. But this is not that kind of war. This is a war so arduous and difficult that it can only be won by a united people, by a people who know that the civilization for which they must be ready to die is, in truth, worth dying for."
The other article I was particularly interested in was by Dr. E. C. Lindeman, called "Pursuit of Happiness in Wartime." This, too, I hope none of my readers will miss, for it deals with a subject we must not forget, no matter how many difficulties we have to meet.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
