
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Sunday—On Friday afternoon I had a number of appointments, ending up with a little time spent with Ambassador Winant, whom I have been trying to see ever since he came back from England.
We had a quiet dinner at home, and at 9 o'clock I went to a meeting of the UNRRA staff society, whose members are preparing to go overseas. They held this meeting in the Pan-American building, and after the speeches there was a short, informal reception. Many of the workers come from the countries in the world where they are now going to try and rehabilitate the people. Some of them were driven out by persecution and some were here before the war, but all of them have grave responsibilities ahead, and it is heartening to see with what courage and interest they face the future.
Few people realize the difficulties of accumulating supplies and transportation and of making arrangements with the governments of various countries while the war is still going on. In spite of it all, however, former Governor Lehman and his staff manage to find solutions to the many problems, and I know that as good a job as it is possible to do under present conditions is being done at all times.
I took the midnight train back to New York City in order to do some Christmas shopping in the morning. At noon I attended the luncheon of the United Parents AssociationAssociations, where I spoke. This group is facing the challenge to parents in the present and in the immediate future, and certainly there never was a time which presented parents with a greater variety of problems.
Later in the afternoon I went to the reception given by T/Sgt. and Mrs. Joseph Lash, and today I am trying to visit a number of my family and friends here who have been laid low by various ailments. I often think how fortunate it is that the Lord has kept me so far in such excellent health. I can't think how I would ever have time to be ill, but I suppose the day will come when I will be forced to find time, and how I shall hate it!
The War Production Board is asking all of us who speak before groups of people if we will not continue to emphasize the need that exists for conservation and salvage. Paper is their immediate concern, but I think they are anxious that conservation should extend to everything we use in our daily lives. It may not always be directly for a war purpose, but many things otherwise wasted might go to free some war materials, and so we should never think of anything as being useless.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
