
                  
                     SeattleSEATTLE, Ore.Wash., Friday—Yesterday, on the train, coming into Portland, Ore., a Scotchman and his wife, who were on their way to spend a short vacation in Canada after several years in Government service in Shanghai, China, came in to speak to me. It was evident to them that it was a great relief to get away from some of the experiences they have lived through in China.
We were met at the station in Portland by members of the American Legion, who were sponsoring my lecture, and went directly to the hotel. Until 5:00 o'clock, we were busy with mail, and then I went down for an hour to meet some of the Legion members and their guests.
There were many familiar faces among the Democrats who came. I was glad to see Mr. David Honeyman and two of the Honeyman girls. Mrs. Honeyman, unfortunately, has been in the East while I have been in the West, so I missed seeing her, much to my regret.
A friend of hers, Mr. Mowry, the composer, came to see me for a few minutes. I also had a short visit from a young man whom I am beginning to look upon almost as an old friend, Richard Neuberger, who is now a member of the Oregon State Legislature.
All afternoon, more or less, I had been listening with one ear for my daughter and son-in-law's arrival. When I went upstairs after the reception, I was overjoyed to hear their voices in Miss Thompson's room. We always have more to talk about than there is time to say. We were through dinner and I had to leave for the lecture, and still we practically had to stop in the middle of a sentence.
We made our plane very comfortably and reached Seattle just before midnight. It was like coming home to find ourselves sitting in Mr. and Mrs. Boettiger's living room, munching apples before we went to bed.
This morning I realized how much children can grow in six months, for Sis and Buz Buzz seem to have changed much since I was here last fall. The greatest change, of course, is in our little two-year-old, Johnny. Miss Thompson and I have learned not to make too rapid advances, but he was soon playing a game with us from behind the screen. I think we shall be accpeted accepted as part of the family before the day is out.
Here we are again spending the morning on mail. Our day is our own with no obligations, which is a very pleasant feeling.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
