
                  
                     San Juan, Puerto RicoSAN JUAN, Puerto Rico, Monday—I want to go back now to our
first day in Puerto Rico. The flight from Jamaica took us over the
islands of Haiti and Santo Domingo which looked beautiful and wild
from the air. On our arrival in San Juan, I could see many changes
beginning with the new airfield which was not here when I landed
by Pan American in a flying boat ten years ago. The Governor and Mrs.
Tugwell and the head military officials met us.
The slums along the waterfront which filled me with horror the
last time were not to be seen, but I was told that they had just
moved a little further away. They had not disappeared.
The housing situation is almost as bad as ever, according to the
Governorgovernor. Living costs have risen about 50 per centpercent, and the head of
one of the political parties told me that rice, which used to be
five cents a pound, is now ten cents a pound. It is one of the things
which the poor people count on as a main article of diet.
The chancellor of the Universityuniversity., Senor Benitez, dined with the
Governorgovernor and Mrs. Tugwell, and he told me the university had grown
very considerably in the past ten years. He said that the government
has now established a system of scholarships whereby the best scholars
in the high schools are given a chance to go to the university.
A choir from the university led by the head of the music department
sang in the evening at the Governor's reception and gave a very
lovely program.
The Governorgovernor said they had kept everything quiet about my
arrival, but nevertheless everybody seemed to know I was there and
the children who were out of school early made the narrow street
leading to La Fortaleza seem narrower than usual.
We left our things at the Governor'sgovernor's house, and started out
almost immediately with General Shedd. He asked me to review with him
a regiment of Puerto Rican troops who seemed to me to march very
smartly in spite of their few weeks of training.
Then we went to the enlisted men's new recreation building. It
is built right on the cliff looking across the ocean. There are some
good bowling alleys, a little music room, a writing room upstairs
and a big room for games with a sundeck outside, which I am sure will
be filled on pleasant evenings. As I "opened" the building I was
allowed to roll two balls down an alley and failed each time to hit
the pins at the end. At this center, a boy was introduced to me who
came from Poughkeepsie, N. Y.N.Y., and Private Smith was photographed
with General Shedd. This will be a photograph which I imagine he will
want to send home. It doesn't often happen for a private to have his
picture taken with a general!
Curious coincidences are always occurring on these trips.
Another young officer, when introduced to me, told me that his name
was Deering and that his father is a great friend of our old friend,
Major Henry S. Hooker.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
