
                  
                     Poughkeepsie, N. Y.POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y., Wednesday—Mrs. Scheider is certain today that she has a great many friends she did not know existed. There are a good many friends who have sent her flowers and messages of every kind. In addition, there are a number of very kind notes from people who thank her for things which she has done for them in the past and tell her how sorry they are she is ill.
When her mail was brought in this morning, I took it from the nurse with a great deal of satisfaction, for I was now the one who opened the mail and decided what she should read, instead of the reverse procedure. Then I asked Mrs. Scheider if she knew one or two of the people who had written. She shook her head, looked up at the nurse rather apprehensively and said: "If everybody I have written to in the last six years is going to write me now, no one is ever going to have time to acknowledge the letters."
I am very glad I did not read "The Citadel" until this week. Comparatively few books will hold your attention when you are very anxious, but "The Citadel" meets that requirement and it saw me through some very trying hours. I haven't quite finished it, but I think it is a most interesting book.
I am also grateful for "The Connecticut Nutmeg." This new magazine, which I read with the greatest interest, has so many contributors of note on a variety of subjects, that I think everybody can find something in it to give them a few moments of entertainment. In the last issue, Elizabeth Hawes gave me much joy. She suggested that those of us who had to attend our son's weddings in the month of June should just pick out some nice, comfortable garment which will stand rain or sun, and not try to decide on something new.
That sounds eminently sensible. But oh, Miss Hawes, just try it if you have a family, or even worse, if you have to answer the questions of the press on what you are going to wear! All winter long I try to make four or five evening dresses sound like fifteen. You wear the same dress, but it must be black velvet with lace on one occasion—and the lace must always be priceless—and black velvet with sequins on another, or black velvet with orchids on a third. The editors wouldn't like it if a truthful reporter wrote: "The same black velvet dress was worn on two previous occasions."
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
