
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Thursday—We returned from New York City yesterday in the rain and it seemed very cool and chilly. But, when I walked into my sitting room with a fire burning brightly on the hearth, the world took on a brighter aspect.
The President, Major Hooker and I had a quiet dinner. I think that Archbishop Spellman's visit, and driving around the place, must have had a very soothing effect on my husband because he went to bed at 9:30 and his light, which often burns until late, was out by ten-fifteen.
This morning I finally discovered how many people are coming to stay with us this weekend. Since there is no housekeeper here, I have been busy having lists made for bedrooms, making out menus for meals and letting all the different people know what their various duties will be during the next few days.
Doing things up here is never quite as simple as doing them in the White House, because there Mrs. NesbitNebsitt does all the detail work which here we have to do for ourselves. However, no matter how busy we are, I always have plenty of people to help me.
The selective draft bill which was passed by the Senate yesterday will now go to the House, which will mean further conferences and perhaps further changes. I, for one, am glad to see that some consideration is being given to a draft of industry as well as men.
The newspapers this morning report severe bombing in both London and Berlin. What this means to civilians in all countries seems increasingly appalling, particularly where children are concerned. There is no way of shielding children from the sins of their elders, but more and more I feel that we older people have created a curious world in which youngsters have to suffer for something they do not even understand.
We heard from our Norwegian guests this morning. They are rested and are motoring to stay with us for a little while. A sad change for the Princess Martha. Last year she was here with her husband and, even though clouds hung over Europe, Norway seemed entirely secure in her neutrality. That is a thing of the past and she is back here with her children as a refugee without her husband.
Her brave words on landing yesterday should give us all a cue to our own manner of meeting any hardships which may come. She said she was sure that Hitler's rule could never be permanent. Anyone who believes that our own philosophy is right, will echo her words.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
