
                  
                     WASH.WASHINGTON Wednesday —Until 5:00 o'clock, yesterday afternoon, seemed, for the most part, a record of office work. Then I came home, to find our guests, Mr. Alexander Woollcott and Miss Connie Ernst, another friend from distant parts who had arrived to spend two nights, and Mr. and Mrs. Max Ascoli, all gathered around Miss Thompson at the tea table in the West Hall. We had a really pleasant hour and then a quiet dinner and an evening of talk and work.
This morning I was at the Office of Civilian Defense by 9:00 o'clock. One person after another followed in close succession for interviews. Like many other Washington officials, I consider the day is only a time for storing up work, for each person who comes in to see me starts me on some new subject.
Because I see one person after the other, means that, when I go home, I have to gather up all my notes and material, sort out what I have to do and to dictate, reach such people as I can at their homes after business hours, and line up those whom I have to contact the next day.
I think really anyone in Washington will bear me out; a person needs two days, one in which to see people and one in which to do the things which seeing people entails. But the same twelve working hours must contain both working days! Most of us try to cram it all into a day and a night.
It is fun, but one can only justify it on the theory that, if one's boys, scattered around the world, are doing a straight 36 hour turn of duty every now and then, one certainly should be able to do seventeen or eighteen hours a day.
It is interesting to know that, beginning February 9th, we shall go on Daylight Saving Time. It is rather early in the year,  but I have an idea that we shall find it a good innovation. For once, this will be the same throughout the country. I think that is a very good idea, because I have gone through many anxious moments when I lef home on Standard Time, and wondered whether I was to arrive at my destination on Daylight Time, or vice versa.
The Office of Education has set up a wartime commission, which I think will fulfill a most valuable function. It represents 18 major national education and library associations. It is to affect moreffect more direct and workable contacts between government agencies on one hand, and educational institutions and organizations on the other.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
