
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday—From my mail I gather that a number of people are afraid that we will lose sight of the main objective for which we and our allies are today fighting—namely, winning the war against Germany and Japan. I think it is well for us to remind ourselves in every one of the Allied countries that that is our main objective, and that everything else can wait.
We knew when we joined our allies that we had different backgrounds and different philosophies on a number of subjects because of our different historical backgrounds and the different conditions in our various countries. We in this country, however, knew that if we didn't join with our present allies there might come a day when we would be fighting here on our own land against the Germans and the Japanese; and so, to prevent the destruction of our own homes, we entered the war. We should discourage action anywhere on the part of any of our allies which leads to diverting our strength or thought from our main objectives.
Boundaries can wait for the future. Governments anywhere should be only provisional, and questions which have no real importance to any of us at the present time should be left for settlement until after the war. Until our enemies, the Germans and Japanese, are beaten once and for all, the emphasis should be entirely on what we fight for together, not on what our future aims may be.
Awaking this morning to a clear, bright sunny day, after all the recent rain and fog, made me feel I must get out for a walk early, even though it was so cold I hated to get up! There were not many people walking along the streets when I did get out, about 9:30. Nevertheless, it was interesting to see how quickly everybody was moving along. There was no dawdling, and I found myself taking deep breaths on the theory that that was the best way to keep warm. Even the cold could not prevent one gentleman, however, from living up to what I am sure is a daily habit. He stood with bare hands coaxing a squirrel to take something from his fingers. I marvelled at his patience, because over and over again the squirrel would almost reach up and then retire; but the gentleman kept right on until, as I was passing out of sight, I saw the squirrel actually take the nut.
Last night we played a foolish game of cards with the children, at which two of us were consistent losers. I cannot say that I have much luck at any kind of games. In fact, if I win it is really quite an occasion. But my daughter remarked that this was an occasion anyway, because it was the first time this winter that I had played with them for an hour after dinner. I suddenly realized that it was the first time I had not had to work on the mail, having been free all afternoon and able to finish before dinner!
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
