
                  HYDE PARK
                     —I read a most interesting report yesterday entitled: "The City of New York, The Story of The Municipal Committee for the Relief of Home Owners, 1934 to 1936".."
The thing which seems to me so outstanding about it is the amount achieved by a combination of volunteer work in cooperation with the government. The original committee began its work on Long Island and was the conception of Mr. James N. MacLean, a New York Lawyerlawyer. It grew to cover the whole metropolitan area. Any one who is familiar with the Home Owners' Loan work and the various difficulties experienced by individuals dealing with the government, will recognize at once the value of this committee of able volunteers. I wish greatly that such work could be extended throughout the country not only in this field but in many other fields in which the government is now concerned.
As I was walking down a street in Poughkeepsie yesterday, I saw some very nice cherries in a little shop and stopped to buy them. The young boy who came out to serve me rushed away without answering my question about the cherries to return almost immediately with a ticket to the Hollywood Bowl for a speech which I made there last October! He held it out saying: "That's where I saw you last, Mrs. Roosevelt, and I've wanted ever since to have you sign my ticket." Of course, I signed it and inquired whether he lived in California. "No",," he said, "I live in Poughkeepsie but I just went out there for about a year. There were about fifty other people I met there from Poughkeepsie. So we are getting to know our own country!
We were going to take a picnic supper last night to the top of a hill back of our cottage, but towards late afternoon a tremendous thunder and wind storm came up. We needed the rain badly and were grateful for it, but the wind did a great deal of damage. When I went over to ride this morning, two of our biggest trees were down across the road on our avenue and everywhere big and little branches were strewn around the ground. Two trees fell on the farm, one on the silo and one on the barn roof doing a certain amount of damage. I can hardly bear to see my mother-in-law or my husband for they adore every tree on the place. So many years to grow, and gone in just a few minutes!
