
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—To my readers who live in New York City, and incidentally to those who live in other cities where a like situation may exist, I should like to suggest that anyone who has a spare room in his house keep in touch with The Officers' Service Committee. In New York City, the office is in the Hotel Commodore, and there is a housing desk run by the committee, where rooms and apartments are procured for officers and their families. It is difficult for a woman to arrive in a big city, expecting to meet her husband, sometimes with a child or two, only to find that he has not yet arrived or that he has already sailed away.
Big cities are crowded these days. People with limited incomes can notcannot always afford hotel prices and I know that this particular service has been of great help to many men and to their families.
Of course, there are many other things that are done for the officers. They can procure lists of places of entertainment and theater tickets at half price. They can get information on many subjects and I am sure arrangements can be made for any particular thing they wish to do.
This housing service, however, has especially appealed to me. In New York City it is headed by Mrs. Herbert Carlebach, and I hear that her difficulties are very great at the present time. So if you have a spare room at any time, let her know, or put yourself on her list so she can call you and find out if you have any free space when she is looking for accommodations.
This is Negro History Week, from February 13th to February 20th inclusive. In Chicago, Negro history is being taught in the schools. It seems to me that this might well be done in some of our other big cities to give some background of knowledge about our largest minority group in this country.
On Saturday I went with the President to pay homage at the Lincoln Memorial, and we were reminded that this is the 11th year that the President has attended the ceremonies. The most colorful part is the sight of the waving flags coming down the steps, with the great statue of Lincoln sitting so calmly on its pedestal, looking down on the men who revere his memory, but who have not yet achieved the greatness for their country which was Lincoln's ideal.
In the afternoon I went to the Navy Yard with my husband. He spoke over the radio at the ceremonies attending the turning over of an American destroyer escort to the French. The ship's officers and men presented me with a lovely bouquet of red roses. Mrs. John Roosevelt and I went on board for a glance at the quarters.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
