
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Sunday—Yesterday was an exciting day. I have seen
coast defenses from Seattle, Wash. to San Diego, Cal., but I never
happen to have seen what is done to protect the Atlantic coastline.
At General Jarman's headquarters a group of us saw the whole
plan. We were told how he had started his organization, developing
it till it reached a peak, and now was gradually seeing the system
being used in other places.
With every new victory abroad the probability of an attack on
our coast is lessened. Nevertheless, it is interesting to see what
has been accomplished right around New York.
I went into the newspaper office which keeps many of these coast
defense men who are in remote places informed on what is happening
in the world once a week. I found that a board of newspaper publishers
had given them an award as the best Army newspaper. One of
their features is an amusing comic strip, in which the main character
does everything in the wrong way, and he serves to teach the readers
how to behave in the right way. They had some excellent covers,
ranging from a most attractive baby to a picture of my husband which
I do not think is one of his best.
After leaving the headquarters where we got the general picture,
we visited several of the installations— fromfrom searchlights to antiaircraft
batteries. There was a time when captive balloons were
used as part of the defense. That time is past, but I had seen those
on the west coast and know how they were operated.
A half hour at home, and I went off with the Navy to see the
Merchant Marine gun-crewsgun crews in their headquarters in Brooklyn. I was
glad to meet the whole crew of a battleship, four of whom had come
to see me in Washington. Many of them wear pre-Pearl Harbor ribbons
as well as other insignia denoting service in different theatres of
the war. These boys on merchant ships probably see a greater variety
of places than the boys in the regular Navy who are usually
assigned to one area and stay there for a considerable time.
At one time this branch of the service had the greatest number
of casualties, but now both the enemy under-seaundersea craft and the enemy
planes seem to be pretty well under control and in an ever widening
area. I pinned on medals and handed out commendations to some of the
men at a very formal ceremony, and was particularly glad to have
this opportunity of seeing so many of them who are in port waiting
for their next assignment.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
