
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Wednesday—I watched my husband play bridge Monday night. It is something he rarely does and so his game is always worthy of attention, but in consequence we did not get to bed until nearly midnight!
However, before 6:00 yesterday morning, I was wide awake. Only the knowledge that everybody else in the house would object to being disturbed, kept me from waking the rest of the household and telling them this was the hour when a June day should really be enjoyed! This June weather is very beautiful, especially in the early morning. I sat up in bed and read until I could bear it no longer, and 8:15 found me downstairs breakfasting alone.
Franklin, Jr.'s, dogs have become everyone's pets and now have the run of the house. My mother-in-law has a Pekinese and everyone chuckled yesterday because the Pekinese had routed both the big dogs. They didn't even stand their ground, they retreated in disorder when the little mite snarled and darted after them!
All the younger members of the family had a picnic lunch with me yesterday, for my husband was receiving the delegation which presented him with the check that represented the proceeds of last January's Birthday Balls. He promptly handed it back to the custodians of the Foundation which will now do scientific reserachresearch on infantile paralysis, and assist wherever possible in periods of need.
I returned from the hospital about 20 minutes before lunch. I had telephoned to have my charcoal fire all ready for broiling, but forgot that my maid had never before dealt with that particular fire. I found Miss Cook starting the fire just when it ought to have been down to nice, glowing coals, but the family was late so I need not have worried.
The family brought Ambassador Kennedy with them, for he had been talking and missed the train he had intended to take. He seemed to enjoy our strawberries and agreed with me that, good as is the English fruit, it has not the same flavor as our hardy outdoor product, though it looks so much finer.
I returned to the hospital in the afternoon. In spite of the warm day, Mrs. Scheider was feeling well and she has been promised that in another two days she will be sitting up. Mrs. Somerville and I were busy on mail, but we finished in time for a swim before dinner.
A short visit to the hospital this morning before taking the train to New York, where I have done a number of errands. I must say cities have no real charm for me in the summer!
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
