
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Wednesday —The labor representative of the Dutch Government, who is here for the ILO Conference, came to lunch yesterday and gave a vivid picture of what it means for the working people of his nation to be under the control of a conquering nation.I wondered if he had been able to tell it as vividly to some of our people in this country, who wonder why a maximum defense effort is necessary when we do not seem to be personally menaced.
I have heard so many people saythatsay that what we are doing is being done for the British Empire, or for the other democracies, when in reality whatever we do, is for ourselves alone. First, to keep us from suffering what they are already enduring, and next, to try to establish for the world a situation in which human beings will not have to endure such suffering again. We are a part of this world family!
It is encouraging to realize that certain things are still going on which were established by the League of Nations, such as the International Labor Bureau and certain health organizations.
After lunch, the President drove up to Rhinebeck to give his advice on the choice of a site for a new school.We all had tea together, including the little Princesses, Beatrice and Irene. They were rather afraid of Fala, the President's little Scottie, since they had never had a dog of their own in Holland.
While they solemnly drank their cambric tea and ate their cookies, I made Fala perform for them. He did every trick he knows, several times over, and gradually they lost their fear so completely that they ended by chasing him around the room and my husband had to rescue him by taking him in his arms.
There he behaved just like a child and snuggled his head down on the President's shoulder, but the little girls had at last gained confidence and, as they were led away to supper, the older one came over and gave Fala a shy but affectionate pat.
A little before 9:00 o'clock, the Democratic victors on our town ticket—and this year the Democrats won every town office—appeared at the house, and the President congratulated them.
The most excited person was the daughter of one of the victors. She brought her autograph book and corralled the President's autograph, Princess Juliana's and mine, plus that of Tommy Qualters, the President's bodyguard. She went away murmuring that the first time the Democrats had lost, but the second time they had won. For her, I am sure, winning was symbolized by the acquisition of these autographs.
After taking the Princess Juliana to her train, Miss Thompson and I drove to New York City, and are here for two days while I lecture at Town Hall.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE.)
