
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—Before leaving New York City last Monday, I went to a lunch given by a really enthusiastic group. The Theatrical and Motion Picture Committee for Roosevelt, Truman and Wagner put on a real show.
It was held at the Hotel Astor under the joint chairmanship of John Golden and Louis Nizer. The room was crowded, and though Senator Wagner spoke well, I think he would agree with me that the honors were carried off by Mayor La Guardia, who spoke for all the candidates. The Mayor kept everyone listening intently through his whole speech, enjoying it, but at the same time recognizing the truth of what he said, and remembering many little items which will be useful in future arguments!
I spent an hour yesterday afternoon in Washington, seeing the patients in the malaria ward at the naval hospital. Most of these boys are marines who look back to Guadalcanal as the probable source of their malaria attacks. One poor boy was going through bad chills, and I must say I never get accustomed to seeing those boys suffer without a sense of rage that we have had to put our youth through the horrors of this war.
I have been reminded that October 22 to 29 was Hard of Hearing Week, and I imagine that money was raised at that time by many organizations which help the deaf. Because this has been a war of high explosives, we will have many men afterwards whose hearing will be impaired. This must be looked upon, therefore, not just as a civilian interest, but also as an interest which will affect many of the younger generation who will have to adjust themselves to deafness in the future.
I have had an appeal from a small business which is having trouble getting paper. They beg people not to waste paper, but to conserve every scrap. I must say that I suffered as we drove past the assembled crowds in New York City on our tour the other day, when I saw torn paper floating out of many windows. I know it is hard to express one's enthusiasm without some tangible object, but I think we should restrain ourselves and really remember that every scrap of paper is valuable.
This particular printing company tells me that they have made an appeal for additional paper to WPB. If they cannot get it, they may have to go out of a business which they have built up over a period of 60 years. They naturally feel that not only should there be no destruction of paper, but it should not be used for anything which is not of absolutely vital necessity.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
