
                  
                     RochesterROCHESTER, N. Y. Wednesday—After speaking at the Girl Scouts dinner last night, I took the night train to Rochester, N. Y. Here the various youth groups have formed themselves into a council similar to the one which functions in Schenectady, New York. I spent some time with the Schenectady group last year and am very glad to see the work that these young people are doing here.
Miss Hildur Coon, representing the United States Student Assembly, came up with me, and President and Mrs. Alan Valentine were kind enough to meet us and bring us to their house for breakfast.
The day is fairly full, beginning at 11:00 o'clock with a meeting of the Women's College Assemby of the University of Rochester. From 12:30 to 2:30 there will be a luncheon meeting with the United Youth Committee, at which there will be informal discussion concerning their own organization and its future possibilities for usefulness. From 3:00 to 4:15, there is to be general discussion of post-warpostwar problems with youth leaders of the various groups represented on the committee and a few leaders of additional groups which are not as yet represented in the council.
The day is ended with a United Youth Rally at Eastman Theatre at the University of Rochester. I am to have dinner with President and Mrs. Valentine, and to have the pleasure of seeing my old friends, Mr. and Mrs. Harper Sibley, so I think this day, even though a busy one, will not only be interesting but enjoyable.
Tonight I take the train back to New York City, where I hope to arrive in time for breakfast on Thursday morning.
I am more and more impressed by the fact that young people are undertaking to organize their own groups for the discussion of their activities, both in the war and the post-warpostwar period. Boys and girlsaregirls are participating together. Since, in all likelihood, the home front will have to be protected largely by the girls and the women of the country, while the boys are fighting the war, I think it is a very good sign that the young people are making their plans and having their discussions together, so there will be a thorough understanding of their ideals and purposes.
One thing these young people will need besides the experience which they can only gainasgain as they grow older—that is a clearcut understanding of the objectives for which they work, open minds as to the methods which can be worked out to obtain these ends, and the courage to meet new problems and solve them in new ways if necessary.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
