
                  CAMPOBELLO, N.B.
                     —By ten-thirty yesterday morning it began to look like nice weather so we started on the Potomac for L'Etang. By the time we reached the ekysky was blue and the sun was shining and a few minutes after we dropped anchor in the harbor, my husband and John came along side in a whale boat. James and Franklin, junior
                  , were in a dory with an outboard motor. They seized Betsy and Miss Ingersoll and went ahead to see where we could best land on the beach. Before we knew it everybody was off for the shore. The boys had their trousers rolled up and their shoes and socks off, and were offering to carry everyone ashore. I insisted that I could jump if two of them would give me a hand but they seized everybody else and carried them in spite of protests from the gentlemen who thought they could wade just as well as those who were wading! The ladies squealed but submitted more peacefully.
Before lunch Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins, Franklin, juniorJr. and I climbed to the highest spot on the Island to get a view of the River and the Bay. We saw two houses not far away and made our way around the shore to them, finding that one of them belonged to a Mr. Clark who was quite a large landowner. They had the Canadian and American flags flying to greet the boats in the Harbor and to my surprise, on the piano I found a picture of my husband which Mr. Clark told me he understood I considered a good one! We found that their interest in the United States was very keen because they had five sons in New York City, so before our picnic was over they came over to talk to the President.
The men played a strenuous game of baseball on the beach after lunch and by four o'clock we started for home on the Potomac. My husband and the boys decided to sail home arriving a little after dark.
The younger ones went down to a village dance and I left them a note to please put out all the lamps. At about three a.m. I woke and taking my flashlight went to see if everything was safely out. Much to my annoyance every light seemed to be burning and I went down inwardly preparing reproof for the morning only to find the Secret Service men sitting in the hall! I had forgotten that we were no longer living in solitary state!
