
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—Here it is Monday and I am still writing about Saturday! I really did get badly behind. However, there is little to record on Saturday, except that I opened the "Mile of Dimes" by speaking over the radio for a few minutes and putting two pieces of silver on the line for the President and myself.
In the late afternoon I went down to talk to the workers in the United States Office of Education about my trip to Great Britain. Then, in the evening, I went on a complete tour, at least as complete as three hours could make it, of the recreation centers for service menservicemen in the District of Columbia. This was not my own idea, but a request from the committee.
I was very happy to go, since there are so many men in and out of Washington, for it seems to be both a place for recreation and for changing planes and trains to reach other parts of the country.
Yesterday morning, I spoke at the annual communion breakfast for the members of the Carroll Club. This club has for many years been a home and a great influence in the lives of thousands of girls who work in New York City. Mrs. Nicholas Brady, whose mother was deeply interested in it, was the moving spirit for many years of this organization.
Last evening I had supper and spoke at International House, and tonight I shall be on my way to Montreal, Canada. Many important groups throughout the Province of Quebec are joining together to make this benefit for Russian Relief on Tuesday night a great success.
People are always writing me suggestions of one kind or another. I have one from the Veterans of Foreign Wars of Tulsa, Okla., which really may have merit and meet a need in other parts of the country. They tell me that so many wives and children travel to see their husbands and fathers in army camps. They sometimes wait long hours in bus terminals and railroad stations, with no place to put the baby down for a few minutes except on the wooden benches.
The Veterans of Foreign Wars, therefore, have provided cribs and baby baskets to relieve this need, and found that both the mothers and children seem very much happier. I should think that the problem of laundry and keeping mattresses cleanmightclean might be more difficult than would at first appear.
Possibly, some cover can be arranged, which takes only a few minutes to wash off, and a pad which can be changed for every new baby that occupies the crib might be a safe covering. In any case, this is an idea which various organizations might like to consider if they find the same needs in their town, as seem to have developed in Tulsa.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
