
                  
                     Buffalo, N.Y.BUFFALO, N.Y., Wednesday—I left New York City yesterday on a noon plane for Boston, Mass., and spoke last night at the League of Women Voters dinner. At its national convention this year, the League agreed on a war service plan in line with the work it has always done, but on a broader scale. They hope to spread knowledge about important government issues to great numbers of people outside the League membership.
In the past they emphasized the education of their own members, now they realize that education for good citizenship must reach a wider field. They will translate their knowledge into action by participation in the primaries and at the polls. Their third objective is to make their local governments meet war timewartime demands.
I held a press conference soon after arrival and found there was great interest in the outstanding program which is to be given June 14th in the Boston Garden at the United Nations War Relief Rally. Getting together for relief is a good precedent which we hope points the way to future cooperation in days of peace.
At 5:00o'clock5:00 o'clock, I spoke on the Harvard Crimson network on the present and future role of American youth in this war. Youth seems to have such a great role to play these days and its responsibilities seem so heavy that, as a member of the older generation, I find myself growing humbler every day. Our debt to the youth of this generation is piling up so fast it is hard to see how any of us will ever repay it.
I left Boston on the night train for Buffalo, N. Y., and am having a busy time here. The Buffalo Federation of Labor invited me to see their housing project. Anything that has to do with housing is al waysalways of deep interest to me. Tomorrow I shall tell you more about my afternoon here.
I keep learning day by day of interesting organizations in my Washington Square neighborhood in New York City. The last thing to come before me is an organization called the People's Symphony Concert Concerts which for the price of one dollar provide a member with six outstanding concerts. You may choose what type of concerts you want to hear.
They provide several series and have pianists, dancers and string quartettes. The best in practically every line may be had at a cost of less than tendollarsten dollars. This seems very important, for it brings an opportunity for really worth whileworthwhile entertainment to people who have not much margin to spend on  pleasure.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
