
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—Saturday evening we had the pleasure of welcoming Mr.AnthonyMr. Anthony Eden for the first time on this visit. He was very kind to me when I was in Great Britain and I was very happy to see him again.
Sunday afternoon I went to the Pan-AmericanPan American Building, where, between 4:00 and 5:00 every Sunday afternoon, they have an hour of music and entertainment for the many Government workers and Service Menservicemen who visit the building. I was glad of the opportunity to say a few words about the charming South American water colors, which are still on exhibition.
Later, I had the pleasure of seeing Miss Mary Grigs(Grigs correct), who is attached to the British Ministry of Agriculture and who has been here some time working with our Department of Agriculture. In the evening we had a mixed group of diplomats and military men to to view some pictures my husband wished to have shown after supper.
It is a great satisfaction to feel that the promise has been made to the men in our armed forces, that they shall not again return to a country that has not thought through a method of economy which will prevent them from being jobless and hungry. The President has presented to Congress a report from the National Resources Planning Board, which I am glad to seehassee has formed a basis for their own study. They have already named a committee, which, according to the papers, will begin work on Monday or Tuesday.
I can think of nothing which will hearten our men who fight alloverall over the world, so much as to know that both the Executive and Legislative branches of their Government are determined to see that there shall be no recurrence of the post-warpostwar period of the 20's and 30's, and that their interests are being considered during their absence.
There is need this time to prevent the boom period, just as much as the depression period. If we can keep an even keel and retain employment for those now at work and gradual absorption of the men in the armed forces as they are returned to civilian life, we shall prove to the world that democracies can work to the people's advantage.
I am going to New York City to attend a tea this afternoon, where a group of people interested in helping refugee children in this country will be present. This evening I go with the Crown Princess Martha of Norway to the rally at Madison Square Garden, in New York City, for the American Red Cross workers.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
