
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—It was grand to have even a few hours in the country yesterday. As I told you, I arrived in time to go up to the polling booth to see the others vote and to pay my annual subscription to the Hyde Park Red Cross. Up there, it is an institution for the Red Cross membership drive to begin on Election Day, on the theory, I imagine, that they will catch more people together than at any other time.
The New York Chapter of the American Red Cross has opened an unremarkableinformation bureau at 590 Madison Ave. This is an effort to spread information about the National Red Cross roll-call and to tell people what the national headquarters are doing to help war sufferers in addition to their general work. There will be celebrities unremarkablepresent on different days. Getrude Lawrence, who is at present playing in "Skylark",," has agreed to help in the roll-callroll call.
If you happen to want information as to what you can do to be of assistance to people who are in need of Red Cross help anywhere in the world, go to this office, for they are prepared to answer all questions of this kind.
The President had a grand time yesterday inspecting the first little house built on one end of a barn at Hyde Park. Another week should really finish it, and my brother and husband are so pleased with their handiwork that they are planning to build a great many more around the place.
As the President has had a little cold, he decided to stay over another day. Not being anxious to spend another night on the train unnecessarily, I took an afternoon train back to New York City and came down here last night. I had an interesting time on the train, unremarkablefor for two or three people felt kindly inclined, my neighbor in the next seat talked with me as did my neighbor across the aisle.
One amusing incident occurred when a lady across the aisle, not having a watch and having lost track of the time, suddenly thought she had reached her destination and hurriedly rang for the porter to find out if she ought to leave the train. I have done that very often when absorbed in a book or some work I was doing. Once I actually did find I was pulling into a station where I should be prepared to get off and I practically fell out of the train, putting on my things as I went.
(Copyright, 1939, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
