
                  WASHINGTON
                     —We are on our way to New York. A gorgeous day with a tang of autumn in the air. I got out my last year's autumn suit and a new felt hat with a feeling that the time for summer clothes was really over!
I can not play the invalid any longer for I am entirely recovered and pleasant though it may be to shirk the daily round of one's duties, one can not justify it for too long.
Several things which have weighed heavily on our minds seem to come to a close and clear up yesterday. We got a job for the girl who was our greatest problem, started her off to take it up—the rest is up to her.
We cleared our desks and ended the day with the feeling that just when you are most swamped, you manage somehow to do all the work which you thought would never be done!
In the mail this morning there came a copy of the anniversary issue of Parents' Magazine. They are ten years old and I think the editorial by Mrs. Littledale expresses their achievement very well. They are helping parents all over the country to bring up their children better. This bringing up of children is so blithely undertaken by many of us, and the vast majority have had no training. It is one of those professions that every woman thinks she can undertake, so nobody really prepares for it.
The function of Parents' Magazine has been to assist these parents throughout the country and I feel it has done a very creditable job and I wish them continued success.
There is a charming little book of essays by Karel Capel
                   and any one who wants to spend a lazelazy and not too exciting hour would enjoy reading it. It is translated by Dorothy Round and very well done.
There are some sentences which I picked to remember. "Waking is really more amusing than sleeping. It is richer, more absorbing, more creative." Speaking of the penalty imposed on Sisyphus: "The hellish penalty consists not in the fact that Sisyphus had to do hard work but that he had to do useless and shoddy work." Perhaps we respond to that because so many of us think occasionally that we are in the same box. Lastly: "Another kind of pleasure is advising the blacksmith how to shoe a horse, or a cabinet minister what to do. From all of which it is evident that giving advice is a source of inexhaustible comfort."
