
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Friday—When I reached the convention of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America in Chicago, I found that the luncheon was in honor of Mrs. Dorothy BallancaBellanca, a fact which I did not realize until I was asked to sign a most beautiful scroll which was presented to her.
All the members of the board with whom she has served for many years, as well as the three hundred and more women delegates to the convention, signed a very beautifully bound and illuminated scroll in recognition of her thirty years of service in the union. I know she was deeply moved by the great affection for her which everyone could feel in the vast gathering. But the simplicity with which she said that this was the first luncheon which had ever been given to her made one realize that probably she would never quite understand what a contribution she had made. She has drawn other women into the active work of the union, she has represented them on the board, and she has probably been more effective than anyone else in making them feel their responsibilities.
I had the pleasure of spending a few minutes in the editorial room at the office of the Chicago Sun, and of seeing Mayor Kelly of Chicago and Postmaster General Walker just before leaving.
While travelling to New York, I noticed a very small baby who behaved so well that I could not help thinking what excellent mothers the young women are today. They travel from place to place with these tiny children, trying to see their husbands and doing their share in this war ridden world.
One young mother writes me: "I find that a two year oldtwo-year-old son, a victory garden, my house and my husband all conspire to keep any long stretches of time out of my way." Then she adds something which will make a friend of mine very happy. "The Blue Network presents a program called The Baby Institute, which I think is one of the finest programs which has ever been on the air. It is a quarter of an hour of advice to mothers of pre-school children by New York's best psychiatrists, pediatricians, obstetricians and educators, conducted by Miss Jessie Stanton. Every young mother ought to know about it and so few of them seem to."
I have known Miss Jessie Stanton, who is an expert in nursery school work, for a long time. In fact I have been on this program for her. I am glad that it is appreciated and hope that it will have an increasingly large audience, for I am sure it will greatly help the young mothers to face the problems of their children.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
