
                  ATLANTA, Friday
                     —We left Washington last night at midnight, the evening for me was fairly hurried. After I went to the Mayflower Hotel with my husband for the big dinner there and greeted the assembled throng, Mr. Lawrence Robert, Secretary of the Democratic National Committee, escorted me to the New Willard Hotel where I greeted first the young Democrats in the downstairs dining room and then went up to the usual banquet room which was more crowded than I had ever seen it before. They told me they had some fourteen hundred people dining there. Because of the fact that I could not stay very long, they interrupted their dinner and Mr. Maury Maverick, of Texas, the Toastmaster of the evening introduced me. I had not expected to make a speech and so only said a few words and then proceeded into another dining room and greeted the young Democrats there before leaving the hotel.
I must say that it is encouraging to find so many young Democrats growing up to strengthen the Party, and I hope they will retain their youth on into old age for we need the flexibility and enthusiasm of youth to make any political party respond to the needs of today.
I wish very much that F.P.A.FPA and the New York Herald Tribune had not parted company so suddenly for I miss his column greatly. If this could have been done in a more leisurely fashion we might have been able to find his column in another paper and I really miss the contact.
I noticed two little items in the paper the other day and much as I like Mr. John Golden, I am going to differ with him! He says:
"A writer of great plays must have lived, gone through most of the valleys, and over most of the hills of experience. Men can do that but women can notcannot."...... ..."There will never be any really great women writers in the theatre, because women do not know as much as men."
It is certainly true that a writer of great plays must have experience and the possibility of experiencing emotion in order to interpret it, but to say that men are the only ones who can have this experience is ludicrous, and to say that for these reasons: "there will never be any really great women writers in the theatre",theatre," is equally funny because as a rule women know not only what men know but much that men will never know. For how many men really know the heart and soul of a woman?
We slept late this morning and went into the dining car for breakfast enjoying the glorious sunshine which poured in through the windows. One little girl, looking very stolid and entirely bewildered was brought up to me to shake hands. I can not help wondering if in the future these children will be at all interested to know that they once shook hands with a President's wife? They certainly are not very much interested at the moment, and show distinct relief when their fond parents lead them away.
