
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—On Saturday night, in New York City, I went again to see "The Wookey",," and took a young friend I thought would be particularly absorbed by the play. I found the second performance better than the first.
Yesterday morning was such a beautiful day in New York City, that I walked around the Reservoirreservoir in Central Park before taking the plane for Washington. I was at the White House in time to have a visit from Dr. Ruby DanielsDaniel from Texas, and Mr. Dombrowski of the Highlander Folk School in Tennessee. Later the President brought the guests who had lunched with him on the "Potomac ",," among them Lord and Lady Halifax, and Major AtleeAttlee.
Jimmy and Rommie came to supper with us last night and we had a very pleasant party, after which the movie "One Foot In Heaven "" was shown. I was not able to see it however, because the mail had accumulated to such an extent that I spent the evening working on that. I came back to say goodbye to my guests when the movie was finished.

                  JimmieJimmy and Rommie have acquired a large red setter. He is one of Miss Laura Delano's dogs, so he is related to all the red setters various other members of the family have had. Because he had been brought up in a kennel, this one was very frightened, but he has gradually become accustomed to family life and Jimmy often brings him with him when he comes here.
Last night, Jimmy tied him to a leg of the table in the dining room and had difficulty in inducing him to lie down. I had visions of him taking the table with him if he decided to move. During the movie he meandered out of the hall and into an adjoining room where he came upon a bust of the President. Busts apparently still fill him with suspicion and he set up an excited barking, which made more noise than the movie.
After the lights went up and I came out, a bust of Franklin Jr., on top of the bookcase, suddenly attracted the dog's attention and again he howled. It made me feel that his objection was to me, until Jimmy explained that it was really his peculiar feeling about busts!
We are having a busy day today. Early to the Office of Civilian Defense, then a press conference at the White House, then back to the office for an hour, then a brief lunch with the Cabinet ladies, whom I have not had a chance to bring together before this autumn. At 2:00 o' clock, lasting through the rest of the day, there is a meeting of the National Advisory Committee of the National Youth Administration, which I shall have to leave for a brief time to visit the Girl ScoutsScout Little House at 4:30, and then to see Mr. Ellis Gimbel at the White House.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
