
                  WASHINGTON, Friday
                     —I drove my aunt, Mrs. David Gray, around Haines Point yesterday afternoon, to enjoy what remains of the cherry blossoms and these double blossoms which come later last much longer than the earlier ones around the Basin. To my mind, however, the ones around the Basin are more delicate and because of the reflection in the water are doubly beautiful.
I think this season of blossoming trees with the very light green of new leaves makes of the whole country side an enchangingenchanting spot. The dogwood and the apple blossoms are thrown into even greater relief by the green background and stand out better than the colored blossoms. I never can decide what I like the best. I suppose the best way to do in this world is to enjoy everything that gives you pleasure and make no comparisons!
After Mr. Forbes Morgan's funeral this morning, I hope to take a plane for New York in the early afternoon and get to the party to be given by the seniors in the Todhunter School before it is completely over. Then I shall go on to Hyde Park.
I saw ahhead linea headline in the morning paper which interests me very much. Mr. J. Edgar Hoover has asked the press to help fight crime. For a long time I have felt that something might be done by the press along these lines. I remember a warden of a prison telling me that the average young criminal whose intelligence might bot be verunot be very high, was particularly pleased when he made the front pages of a newspaper. His concern was often not so much with his punishment as with the fact that he would be considered a "big shot".shot." I also was told the story of one boy who asked that he might go to the chair walking on his hands so that the press would record a new and novel way of approaching an execution.
I think sometimes the recording of each act which has gone into the perpetration of some crime simply gives new suggestions to less fertile minds. I realize that crimes are "news",news," but I wonder if they could not be very briefly recorded, leaving out as much detail as possible and by doing so it might be easier for the arm of the law to proceed in unsolved crimes.
The public is, of course, to blame, for apparently there is a curious fascination for many people in the reading of all these gruesome details. Is there no way that the public for its own protection can be induced to forego some of this particular type of reading matter?
