
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Monday—It seems as though we had seen quite a number of young people these past few days. Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Williams brought their four sons, and Mr. and Mrs. Mark McCloskey brought their three daughters for a picnic. The young people exercised most of the time that they were here. When they were not exercising they were all eating.
Action is the natural outlet for youth and the rest of us may like to be active for short periods of time, but only the really young want to feel themselves in action practically all their waking moments. This was emphasized yesterday when we had three young people with us who were playing games or eating, when they were not in the pool.
I have just been sent a book: "Glamour And How To Achieve It" by Sali Löbel, which purports to tell you how to be glamourous and make your home so. I am sure it is a very important book, but I haven't had time to go through much of it. I did, however, discover that one of the things one must not do is to lie in bed in the morning after waking up. If you like to daydream, you should do so in your bath, and you should take that a half hour before eating or two hours after eating. Of course, you should do many exercises and you should eat with common sense. By the time I have remembered everything in the book, I think I shall acquire all the lines it tells you must be kept from furrowing your brow.
My grandmother looked much younger than I do at my age. I wonder how she managed to do it without all this good advice? Yet, we all want youth and I am sure I shall read this book with care and try to follow its dictates.
I have read three one act plays for children. If you have any girls in your family who never realized that woman's position in the U.S.A. was once upon a time not what it is today, give them "Enter Women" by Olivia Howard Dunbar. It may bore them a little, but it will be good education. "Fires of Valley Forge" by Harold Harper, will emphasize Revolutionary history. Just at the present time, the most valuable play is: "A Salute To The Fourth" by Elizabeth McFadden. The children will realize that intolerance is nothing new and that 100 percent Americans, who are that and nothing else, have been with us for a long while. They will also realize that, on the other side, there have always been just and tolerant people who could appreciate worth, regardless of race or creed— and nowadays that is valuable.
COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
