
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Thursday —I left New York City early Wednesday morning by train for Albany in order to spend a few hours with some friends. In the evening I dined with a group sponsoring the College Faculty Workshop. I spoke at their meeting on the subject of "Safeguarding the Children and Young People."
I spent the night with Mrs. Earl Miller and took the train to Hyde Park this morning. Much of my day has been spent trying to sort out various things which are to be stored for the children, who may want them again in the future when they settle down again to quieter lives.
Some friends are staying here in the big house and a few others came to lunch. I went over to my cottage in the afternoon and saw a few of my neighbors. Before long I hope to be there for longer and more frequent visits.
I returned this afternoon to New York City in time to attend a supper meeting given by Mrs. David Levy for the executive committee of the International Student Service. Then I shall take the night train back to Washington.
I have just seen a book written by a young private in the Army., Donald F. Smith. It is called "Are You Sure of America," or "The Spirit of Youth Today." I hope it will be read by a great many young people, because Private Smith takes up many of the questions which confront youth in this somewhat confusing world and deals with them in an honest and simple manner.
I have written a magazine article on a subject which I think of great importance to the boys in our armies all over the world, and also to their families at home. I realize quite well that there must be many divergent points of view on this extremely important subject and one never can hope to cover completely all the points that need to be considered when one is discussing great issues.
However, the more we think about each different point and the more we talk about it and discuss it, the clearer we will be in our own mindsas minds asto what we believe and what we are really fighting for at home and abroad.
We, at home, are really fighting, for without our help, cheerfully given, the things which are needed to carry on the war will never be produced, nor will they be conserved. We are changing the pattern of our lives. That is hard for a nation to do unless it feels very secure in the foundation of its beliefs. We can ill afford periods of weakness and uncertainty in the months to come.
COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
