
                  CAMPOBELLO, N.B.
                     —We were about to start on a drive to Robbinston and CaliasCalais yesterday when my mother-in-law who has a radio, told me that the Sewanna would be in between twelve and two, so we gave up our drive and spent most of the morning watching for the boats coming around Friars' Head.
Finally we were regardedrewarded by seeing the sailboat come into the Bay, followed by the Potomac. We started at once in cars to meet the travellers at the dock in the village, but half way down I noticed that, they were coming to anchor before our own house so turned and went back. Once on board we were told they had only come to call upon us for an hour to allow us the privilege of seeing their various sideburns and beards, etc. accumulated on the trip! Of course, the boys decided my mother-in-law must come down. She has steadily refused to get into a little boat and insisted that only at the big wharf could she get on safely. But she has the feeling that men always know best and an interest in everything which goes on which no girl of eighteen could parallel! The three boys marched up to her front porch and in a few minutes she was on her way down with them, got into the little boat and onto the sailboat easily but I was glad to see them take her safely ashore again before they proceeded to L'Etang where they were spending the night.
We came back to the cottage and in a little while Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins and Captain Harrison returned very enthusiastic over all they had seen. They had run along side of the Sewanna in a launch as she was sailing out and had a word with the President and had also gone on board the Liberty in which the newspaper men have made the entire cruise.

                  My daughter-in-law, Mrs. James Roosevelt, junior
                  , and a friend of hers, Miss Elizabeth Ingersoll, drove up about six forty fiveforty-five and remarked how fickle men can be, they insist that we must be here by Monday evening and theythen they sail away leaving us only a message that we can join them for lunch tomorrow!
That is what we hope to do to-daytoday, but at the moment it is raining and we are waiting to hear whether we are to join them or they are to join us.
