
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Wednesday—Yesterday noon I succeeded in going in to the annual Christmas Sale for the benefit of Hope Farm. It is one of the charities in which I have been interested for a long while, since ittakes neglected children from New York City up to a farm in our home county of Dutchess.
If children have to leave their parents and go to an institution, I think this is one of the most successful I know. I always reserve a few Christmas presents to be bought at their sale, just as I always keep certain things to buy at the Sale for the Blind, which comes a little later on.
Among other things in the afternoon, I attended the Herald-Tribune Forum at the Waldorf-Astoria. The ballroom and galleries were filled. I am sure that Mrs. Ogden Reid must feel amply repaid for the hard work which she puts in yearly in obtaining speakers and running this forum. It was the first time that she had no counsel from Mrs. William Brown Meloney, who for so many years was the moving spirit in this undertaking.
I am sure that Mrs. Reid felt that she was holding the forum this year in Mrs. Meloney's memory and that everyone attending over a period of years, thought of Mrs. Meloney and missed her vivid and compelling personality. She was so frail for many years that it is her spirit which you remember. I think it will never die for those who worked with her.
Last evening I spoke for a few minutes on "The Report to the Nation" program in commemoration of November 17th, International Students Day. I was particularly glad to have the opportunity to meet Lieutenant-Commander Hutchins of the Destroyerdestroyer "Borie," whose ship was the subject of one of their dramatic presentations.
I shall go back to Washington tomorrow. I wish there were more hours in every day, for I have been forced to refuse a number of invitations which I would like to accept. On Friday they will hold the last report meeting of the Community War Fund in Metropolitan Washington. When last I heard, the fund was still 10 per centpercent short of its goal, but I am sure that many have not yet contributed and will do so even after the campaign closes.
No one would want to feel that this fund, which combines so many things that we have subscribed to before at different times, is not going to be completely and fully successful. In the Citycity of Washington the USO and foreign relief agencies certainly deserve our full hearted support, as well as the usual long time community services. I would like to congratulate the campaign workers for their magnificent and untiring efforts and to tell them that I feel sure that the citizens of Washington, D. C.D.C., are not going to let them down.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
