
                  
                     Saratoga Springs, N. Y.SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y., Tuesday—As I told you yesterday, we motored to Burlington, Vermont, coming by way of Rutland. It was a most beautiful day and, when we reached Vermont, I was overjoyed to see lilacs and lilies of the valley in bloom, which I had missed at home again this year. It took us less time than I had anticipated, and we had a very leisurely lunch at the Terrace Inn, Brandon, Vermont.
The world is a small one, for the woman who runs the inn told me that her daughter had been in Chautauqua, N. Y., when I went there for the late Mrs. Pennybacker years ago. She had acted as a page at a large reception.
We had a delightful luncheon of waffles and little sausages and maple syrup, not entirely the lunch for two women who desire to grow thinner, but we could not resist maple syrup in Vermont.
We arrived at Burlington, and found our very kind hostess, Mrs. F. V. Burgess, somewhat harassed by numerous phone calls. She told us of the various plans and I began by seeing two young women reporters. At 4:00 o'clock, I went to the University of Vermont at the invitation of the Dean of Women, Miss Mary Jean Simpson, and met the girls belonging to the honor societies and some of their faculty advisers. We had a very pleasant hour and I returned in time to receive Colonel Wood from Fort Ethan Allen, who had come to pay his respects.
We stayed at a fascinating house with a suspended circular staircase, which was most interesting. I admired a lovely needlepoint rug as we went into dinner, and discovered that our hostess had made it.
Today promises to be another beautiful day. We are homeward bound over the same route, stopping in at Saratoga, N. Y. for a short time.
I have just received a most interesting translation, made by a friend from the old French. It is a prophecy written in medieval times by St. Odile. It begins: "Listen, listen, oh my brothers, for I have seen the terrors of forest and mountains. The unbelievable has frozen the people. The time has come when Germany will be considered the most belligerent nation of the world."
It continues to describe the periods, first, second and third, of a great war in which twenty nations are involved and, in the end, it says: "All the plundered nations will recover what they have lost and more ... for the men will have seen such abominations in this war that their generations will want no more of this forever ... for  on that day the frightened men will truly adore God, and the sun will shine with unaccustomed brilliance." Curious, isn't it?
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
