
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—I heard today that Noel Coward is going to sing, from London, his two new songs, which I heard the other day. He will be heard over the radio on the Treasury Hour next Tuesday evening between 8:00 and 9:00 o'clock. I am delighted we are going to have this opportunity to hear him on the air.
Last night, Mayor La GuardiaLaGuardia flew down to Washington, had dinner with us, and spoke before a meeting of the United Women's Organizations in the District of Columbia. This group of women's organizations is composed today of 57 women's groups, ranging from labor groups to political organizations.
They started with a meeting of twelve and stated that they would come together in a united organization to work for civilian defense. I think this is a fine achievement and hope there will be coordination and unity all over the country at this time in the interests of greater efficiency in community defense work.
This morning, Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt arrived in time to have breakfast with me at 8:00 o'clock on the South Portico. Then I met my daughter and son-in-law on their arrival from Seattle, Washington. It gives a lift to my spirits just to see these two young people, even though I am so busy that I think most of our talking will be done in the middle of the night!
At 10:00 o'clock, I was at the Office of Civilian Defense, and returned before lunch in time for two appointments at the White House. Then, three representatives of the American Women's Volunteer Association and some of our Civilian Defense Office staff, came to lunch. We talked over the cooperation between the American Women's Volunteer Association workers already in the field, and the Civilian Defense people, working through our voluntary information and placement bureaus.
I hope this will develop in every part of the country and am anxious that we should use all the work that has been done. We must keep in mind the objectives before all of us, which are to do good work to meet emergency situations and to improve the communities in which we live.
I failed to mention last week, that Miss Helen Hayes, who is a native of the District of Columbia, celebrated her birthday here on October 10th, while appearing in Maxwell Anderson's play:"Candle In The Wind."
It is a long time since she has celebrated her birthday here and, had I been able to be in Washington, I should have tried to celebrate with her by seeing the play. However, I shall have to postpone that until it is in New York City, because my time in Washington is almost entirely taken up, even in the evenings!
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
