
                  HYDE PARK, Friday
                     —I took a short trip on the train this mornong of only an hour's duration and met a very interesting girl. She is studying in Geneva, has been home for her sister's wedding, and because of her time spent abroad was asked to speak on some international questions in the vicinity of her own home, which is in Duluth, Minnesota.
She has her future all planned, she wants to teach a few years and then to go into politics. Just how she enters the political field is still swathed in mystery as far as she is concerned. But teaching is merely a preparation for this ultimate goal, and her idea is that she should obtain a position where lecturing every day would be a necessity and would force her to organize her material and learn how to express herself on her feet.
I like the courage of youth. She faces the fact that of course she will have to take any work she can find when she returns to this country for good, but she is unafraid and I hope she can carry out her program. Some daySomeday we may find her occupying an important political position.
A veteran on his way to the American Legion Convention in New York City also spoke to me and told me he came from Tucson, Arizona; knew Mrs. Greenway, was a railroad man, and a great friend of the President's.
These spontaneous expressions of interest and friendship are worth many enemies and make me believe that Mr. Emil Ludwig may have been right when he said to my husband: "I have come to see the most hated man in American and also the most beloved."
Four friends came to lunch with us today, one of them brought me a very lovely carved Chinese chest, the interior made of camphor wood, and it seems to me that the carving must have taken a man a lifetime to do. It looks well against my plain pine wall, and I feel already that it belongs just where it stands.
Two other friends had been travelling in the interests of the helpless Spanish children. The American Friends Service Committee is doing all it can to help these children in their native land and I feel that that is a very important work which all of us should gladly help.
During the course of conversation, Mr. Donald Stephens showed me some photographs taken in the homestead which is being built for miners in Pennsylvania not far from Pittsburgh. CariousVarious large companies are cooperating with the Friends Service Committee in this undertaking and this summer a number of young people paid for the privelege of working on this homestead tract. They layedlaid the sewer and water pipes, built the chicken houses in which many of the homesteaders are living while they work on their own homes, and became acquainted with the home steaders and their families. Fifty dollars is what it costs each individual for room and board through the session and they agree to work eight hours a day. Boys and girls work together side by side each doing a full share of every kind of work. This is done not for personal gain but to help the people who will eventually live in those houses.
