
                  
                     NEW YORK CITYNEW YORK, Thursday
                  —Suddenly today summer weather is with us and I wish that one could travel with a wardrobe trunk instead of one suitcase. I am afraid that if this weather spreads to New England, I shall be very warm indeed in Boston tomorrow in a suit trimmed with fur.
Yesterday afternoon was a busy and interesting time for me. I spent an hour in the office of the Bureau of Vocational Service for Juniors. The National Youth Administration borrowed Doctor Mary HaysHay from them to work on the re-employment and adjustment of young people all over the country. She was loaned for a few months and is now, I think, on her third year of work, so the Nation owes this particular private organization a debt of gratitude.
I went from one little office to another and saw young people telling their problems to trained counselors. I looked through some of the questionaires and was told about their psychological test which covers mental capacity and the ability to do things with one's hands. I was particularparticularly interested in the scholarship phase of the work, which makes it possible to retrain those who are not quite prepared for the work they want to do.
The group which seemed to me most difficult to serve, was the group between 21 and twenty-five25. The members of this group who are working, or trying to obtain work, often cannot secure permanent employment or are in dead-end jobs with no permanent advancement because of their lack of training or education. They need help almost more than do the younger ones who are either trying to stay in school a little longer or trying to get their first placement.
At 5:00 o'clock Mrs. Scheider and I went to a tea given by Mr. George Carlin, head of the United Feature Syndicate. Editors, publishers and their wives were present in great numbers. I knew a few of them and stood with my fellow columnists to shake hands with them as they came in. Mr. Raymond Clapper stood next to me for quite a while and I was most envious of the people who came in and called him by his first name and seemed so glad to see him. It was a very nice party, but I regretted not being able to talk with many of the interesting people who were simply passing by and shaking my hand!
After dinner, Miss Esther Lape and I went to see Ethel Barrymore in "White OaksWhiteoaks." The play is taken from the novel "White OaksWhiteoaks of Jalna",," by Mazo de la Roche. I enjoyed the book very much when I read it, especially the character of the old grandmother. I have never admired Miss Barrymore as much as I did in this role. It is a most perfect character part as she plays it. I am sure that you will be interested as well as entertained if you spend an evening at the Hudson Theatre.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
