
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday —Franklin, Jr., and Ethel had a party for their young friends here last night, and I was interested to meet the children of some of our friends whom I had not seen in a long time. I find all these young people so interesting and so much better informed than I was at the same age.
After dinner, we were shown "Gone With The Wind".." It is an extraordinary movie beautifully acted. Though I could not believe beforehand that one would sit for three hours and forty-five minutes, and be interested, I discovered that it was entirely possible. There is an intermission in the middle and I had to tear myself away for a time to do some very necessary work, but I saw most of it and my mother-in-law sat through the whole performance, which began at 10:00 o'clock and did not end until 2:00 am!
I went to bed fully intending to ride this morning, but in the early hours of the morning I woke to the realization that something was pattering in my face. On looking out of the window, I discovered that it was snowing. I closed the window and went to sleep again and slept a half hour later than I would otherwise have done. Some of the young people had expected to hunt today but the weather discouraged them, so I had quite an audience when I finished undoing my Christmas packages. I am always surprised at the great kindness of one's friends at this time. It seems to me that they must put careful thought in sending things to the President and me to give us the greatest pleasure.
A group of people were called together today at luncheon under the leadership of Mr. Charles Taussig, Chairman of the advisory committeeofcommittee of the National Youth Administration, to discuss certain problems of youth. Later two gentleman who are organizing an Atlantic Coast States Institute of Human Relations, sponsored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews, in Washington on January 16th and 17th, came to talk to me about their plans. In the meantime, a children's party had begun and was in full swing with the boys and girls enjoying a movie program, slightly more elaborate than the one we had yesterday for the young group. Later they will have supper and I hope I shall have a chance to see their parents at tea for a few minutes and get a glimpse of the children also.
Our family is gradually growing smaller. Anna and John left today for a few days in New York City. Mrs. J. R. Roosevelt leaves us tomorrow morning, and so, little by little, the house will become quiet again, though as long as we keep the children we will feel the spirit of young life in the house, which I think always creates a happy atmosphere.
I have been very much amused the last few days to hear that I have been offered one or two positions which I would consider full-time jobs. I am beginning to wonder whether I have earned for myself the reputation of being willing to accept work which I cannot possibly do, and letting other people do it for me. This is something which I am particularly opposed to doing and I would grieve if I have given the impression that it was a standard to which I am at present willing to subscribe.
(COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
