
                  
                     Golden Beach, Fla.GOLDEN BEACH, Fla., Wednesday—I woke this morning to the realization that there was no sound of wind, and for the first time I stepped out into the sunshine in what our colored maid immediately dubbed: "A perfect Florida day." We may have wind later on, and it may turn cold again, but I know at last what is considered perfect Florida weather and it certainly is marvelous. No one could ask for anything more delightful. I could not bear even to come in for breakfast, and so had it brought down to the little cabana on the beach.
Yesterday afternoon, the owners of the house, Mr. and Mrs. Ross Judson, their sister, and two daughters came in at 5:00 o'clock. I was very glad to be able to tell them in person how much I appreciate all they have done to make this house attractive and comfortable for our stay. At the same time, three young people who are working in the Miami Beach Playhouse, came to tell me a little about their plans. The young girl, Miss Nancy Cushman, ispublicity director, and this week is also acting the leading role in "The Vinegar Tree".." Apparently, Mr. Mulvey is head of the group, and Mr. Gant Gaither is the producer. They seem to have great enthusiasm and must have ability, for a project of this kind always takes time before it becomes known and really is part of the life of any community. They have discovered that they must give rather light plays, for people who come down here want to be amused, not stirred.
I was impressed by their devotion to what they are doing, for they put on a new play every week and must rehearse from ten to five each day and act every evening. They are now looking for a place where they can establish a little theatre to run through the spring, summer and autumn, so that the company may be kept together. I hope they succeed, for the multiplication of these companies will add enormously to the knowledge of the theatre, which is sadly lacking in many communities throughout the United States.
At a time when many of us are watching Assistant Secretary of State, Mr. Sumner Welles' trip in Europe with much interest, I think I should tell you of a cablegram which I received a little while ago from Stockholm, Sweden. It is signed by 17 organizations, national and international in scope, and is addressed through me to all American women. It states that under the auspices of 24 leading women's organizations, representing 520,000 women with various ideals and political views, a meeting was held which adopted a resolution urging women in all countries" to "to refelct upon the consequences of a total war in all its inhumanity." They go on to say that conditions now existing: "must force the women of all countries into common endeavors to find expedients by which to check the terrible happenings of today." They beg us to join in condemnation of war wherever it appears and conclude by saying:" Let: "Let us set to work and strain every nerve to stop the process of devastation and prevent the impending catastrophe which threatens humanity."
(COPYRIGH, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
