
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Wednesday—I finished unpacking yesterday and set to the work on the mail. I hardly dare look at Miss Thompson, for envelopes from Washington roll in. However, we are going to try to keep this summer fairly peaceful and not get that feeling of having more work to do than we can possibly accomplish before the next appointment. If we once catch up on what has been neglected during the past few days, I feel sure we can do this.
I am going to make very few appointments and enjoy the rare privilege of being able to do things without planning them months beforehand. This will be a novel experience!
After supper last night, Miss Thompson and I took a walk and visited our three nearest neighbors. Unanimously, they voiced approval of Their Majesties, and then we switched to admiring babies. There are always babies to be admired in our neighborhood. One of them was particularly insistent when she was not noticed and kept on complaining until we paid attention to her. She is pretty and bright and, I am sure, some daysomeday will be the belle at parties!
It rained all night but it is gradually clearing up now. The weather is so much cooler that it is actually chilly sitting outdoors in a thin dress. Riding through the woods this morning under the low hanging branches was a little dampish but quite delightful. Then I went to see my mother-in-law and Franklin III, who has come with his nurse to stay for a while. He is installed up in the old nursery where his grandfather once slept, and though he looks a little pale because of a cold, I think he will soon get his sunburn back when he plays out on his porch.
I have found an extremely comfortable garment for summer wear. It is made out of hand-blocked cotton material, has a halter around the neck and ties around the waist apron-fashion. A little jacket goes with it, so I can really wear a bathing suit under it and still locklook clothed. Since this will obviate having to dress and undress so many times a day., I am particularly pleased to have discovered this garment. All these cotton dresses. I have are designed by the same woman and are now on sale in one of the Fifth Avenue shops.
I have missed the flowering of our lilacs and lilunremarkablelies of the valley here, but our pansies are still in bloom and the syringa bushes are most luxuriant and very fragrant. This year we are enjoying some lovely climbing roses on our porches which were given to us by Mrs. Henry Morgenthau, Jr., over one year ago and have only just begun to flower. I have never seen climbing roses with so many blooms.
Of course, we all want more rain, but for the moment I am hoping we will have an hour or so of sunshine this afternoon so that some of us may have a swim. The rest of the day will be devote to signing mail and going through what we have not yet read.
Tomorrow we are going to New York City for the day, for a regional congress is being held there by the Democratic women of several States under the auspicies of Mrs. Dorothy McAllister, vice-chairman of the National Democratic Committee.
(Distributed by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
