
                  
                     ITHACA, N.Y., Thursday
                  —As usual, there are so many things I want to tell you about that I am at a loss to know where to begin. I was deeply interested yesterday, in Keuka College. It is a small college which takes approximately 200 girls. For that very reason, the girl who might not be able to obtain anything of value from a big college, may receive a real education here and develop in a way which might be out of the question if she did not have individual attention.
The tuition and board are lower than in many colleges, opportunities are made for work, and they have a few scholarships. They draw largely from the State of New York and from the smaller towns, villages and rural districts.
I talked for a time with the heads of the various college organizations. I was interested to find one bright looking girl, who edits the college publication, had been a victim of infantile paralysis and was still on crutches. She seemed entirely independent, however, and I learned she had earned a large part of her college expenses by work in the book shop.
Because the college is small, it can follow up its girls into whatever occupations they enter and bring them back to the college for discussion and advice. Dr. Miller, head of the college, came there from Bucknell and is a most interesting person whose influence on the girls is excellent. The Dean, Miss Chloe Owens, is a woman who has done so many interesting things that I imagine she can fire the imagination of almost any youngster.
I was back at Cornell in the afternoon and interested in going the round of all the exhibits. I think this is my eleventh yearly visit, and still there is always something new to see. Mr. Langdon, of Elmira, has given the college a collection of really beautiful dresses which belonged to his mother in the Gay Nineties. Next, we visited two kitchens; a modern kitchen arranged to bring out a blue color scheme, and a contrasting old-fashioned kitchen—coal stove, oil lamps, and pump at the sink, but still made attractive by the yellow color scheme used in walls, curtains and rugs.
There is an international exhibit here this year with posters and publications from various countries. Also, a book fair with exhibits of printing from the early days up to modern times, collections of old books, and two rooms of modern books to browse in. One was for the older people and one for children.
I confess the children's room is always the more fascinating to me. The books in the other room were extremely well chosen and calculated to be most valuable to the group of people who visit Cornell during this week. Somewhere around 20,000 will have been here before the week comes to an end.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
