
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Wednesday—I have never known such marvelous weather for this time in August. I went riding again this morning and the breeze was cool, even the flies are gradually disappearing. Before long, I think the woods will be possible for real riding enjoyment.
The purple loose-strife around my pond is at its height in color. At certain times in the day, it is reflected in the water and I can see it from the window by my desk. I find myself gazing out in sheer enjoyment of the color, instead of paying attention to my work. I always had great sympathy with children who played hookey from school in the springtime.
Looking out from our porch yesterday, one of our guests remarked:"If you landscaped this view, it could not be lovelier. After all, nature is the best landscape gardener." I agree, for no planning on our part could excellexcel what weeds and trees and meadows do for us.
I am going to use my column today in a very peculiar manner. A woman who wanted some information, and who is evidently a badly frightened human being, wrote me and suggested that I put an ad in the personal column of a certain newspaper, giving an answer to a question. Unfortunately, this is not possible, for the answer is slightly longer than one could put in a personal item. She wrote anonymously and I have no way of reaching her, unless she should happen to read this column. In which case, if she will write me, I can give her the answer to her question, which is entirely reassuring.
While we are talking about people who are panicky about things they do not understand, I should like to say a word to those who have been asked to register under the Alien Registration Act. Several people have written me, who have been here for a long time, have led good lives and have become respected citizens in their communities. But, when they originally entered this country, they perhaps slipped up on some necessary observances for legal entry.
Instead of being terrified now, it is better to go to the officials and tell the whole story. They are sure to have fair and understanding treatment. Their standing in the community will be in their favor, and they will certainly receive sympathetic assistance instraighteningin straightening out their difficulties, whatever they may be.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE. INC.)
