
                  
                     MinneapolisMINNEAPOLIS, Minn., Tuesday—The Women's War Bond Savings Staff of Chicago, which I addressed yesterday afternoon, featured particularly its booth workers. Cook County and the City of Chicago certainly are justifiably proud of these women workers in this particular service.
They stressed the fact that it was not in any way a glamorous service. It was something which women, who worked all day, were still doing in their free time in the evening. Women who had other jobs and could spare an hour here and there, were giving that hour whenever it could be found. They learned how to tell the story of the different bonds they sold and proved themselves highly successful.
I could not help thinking that, after the war, they might turn out to be veryvaluable saleswomen for some other product, having learned the art of mastering the value of the article they had for sale and the even subtler art of making the buyer want to possess it.
They had also completed the sale of "E" bonds to purchase a new "Chicago" for the Navy. Two boys who are survivors from the old "Chicago" came to the front of the stage and were loudly applauded. They were introduced to me and I found it hard to speak. Somehow, one cannot forget those who did not come back, and all I could do was to wish them good luck.
Afterwards, we stopped at the Servicemen's Club, where Mrs. Edward J. Kelly, wife of the Mayor, is in charge. It seems to be a popular place with the many soldiers who are now stationed in Chicago attending school. Mrs. Kelly is opening some new rooms for young officers, since they had come to her complaining that they were forgotten men with no place provided to which they could go.
Most of the women I saw working there are volunteers. It can be no light work, for the cafeteria was crowded with soldiers. Mrs. Kelly says that their favorite food is hot dogs, coffee and cake. These cakes are baked and brought in by the schools and citizens of the community and all the food is donated.
In the evening, I spoke for Bethune-Cookman College, and then we boarded the train for Minneapolis. We were able to get our breakfast on board this morning, and Mrs. Thomas J. Dillon met us on arrival and took us straight to the hotel for a press conference and from there to her home for lunch. After this, we went to the rally for the Victory Aides. These Victory Aides are part of the Civilian Defense organization and have been wellorganized in this Statestate. I shall tell you more about them tomorrow.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
