
                  
                     Chicago, Ill.CHICAGO, Sunday—Here it is Sunday and I find myself going back to Friday in order to tell you the few things I cannot leave out in the record of Seattle W.P.A.WPA and N.Y.A.NYA projects I saw.
My last visit was paid to an N.Y.A.NYA photographic project which trains young people to take photographs, color them and produce colored posters and signs of all kinds. This is a project on which girls and boys are employed about equally. I have a file of the photographs taken at the practice house the day we were there. A girl took the most artistic out-of-door view of the house with the surrounding grounds.
I've always hoped that some daysomeday we would look upon posters and signs as a chance for real artistic education and decoration. Everything should serve more than one purpose, and though one may be bent on advertising, one can still do it so that it is pleasing to the eye.
John, Anna and I lunched in a restaurant where I enjoyed grilled crabs' legs for the first time. After all, when one travels, one should find out the food specialities of the place one may be in. Crabs in various forms are quite a speciality in ScattleSeattle.
After lunch, I was made an honorary member in two organizations. The Boy Scouts of America are putting on a circus and they came to present me with a card in the Scout Circus Association. I have always thought that scouting did something very definite in the development of boys, and these were a fine, upstanding, manly-looking group.
After this was over, we proceeded to the composing room of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, where I had been invited to attend a ceremony. After being shown some of the machines, Mr. Al Lewis, the Chairman of the Post-Intelligencer Chapel of the Typographical Union, introduced me to all the members present and presented me with a plaque making me an honorary member of their organization. It was a nice little ceremony, for in honoring me they also expressed their affection for John and Anna. I rather think that, in looking back on this pleasant day, John will feel, as I do, that this was its high spot.
For him, it was part of a birthday celebration. He and little Eleanor celebrated their birthdays the same day, and so we went home to have a party for her. friends. Then we ended the day with a purely family party, at which the two of them had their final celebration together.
I left early Saturday morning for the University of Idaho, going by plane to Spokane and then driving to Moscow. There is much to tell you about that day, but again, I'll have to put it off and simply add that I made a plane at 6:30 to connect with the sleeper plane later on in the evening.
At last I have spent a night on a flying sleeper. I thought I would never achieve this flying luxury, but here I am in Chicago after a comfortable night. I'm starting off shortly by plane for Atlanta, Georgia.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
