
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday
                  .—I have read in the newspapers that people have been donating their blood to England to use in transfusions for wounded soldiers.  Somehow, it seemed that had nothing to do with me, until someone asked me yesterday if there was anything I could do to bring it to people's attention.
It appears that a cablegram has come from Dr. John Beattie, chief of the British army blood transfusion service, to the American Red Cross, requesting 10,000 pints of blood in the next four years.  This would represent 20,0000 donors.  I imagine the Red Cross headquarters anywhere will be able to give one full information later on, but for the present I am told, greater New York is the only place where the hospitals are actually cooperating with the Red Cross chapters.
Donors can go to the Presbyterian, Mount Sinai, New York Hospital and the Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn.  This is the first time that an attempt at such mass production of blood plasma has been made.  It will mean the difference between life and death to many wounded soldiers.  It will hardly be felt by the individual donor.
There is a grim article on Poland in Friday evening's PM.  Among the list of things which they give as happening just now in Poland, the first item: "All men and women between 16 and 47 must register for work in Germany." is a little reminiscent of the days when we sold slaves in this country and divided families, sending them to new masters in different places.  It is quite true that there is no place in Nazi culture for a man like Paderewski.  No wonder his statue has been removed by them from Poland.
Yesterday was a most beautiful day.  I had a ride and a swim and worked two or three hours.  At 4 o'clock, the teachers from the three new consolidated schools came to tea at the big house.  It was a great pleasure to have an opportunity to meet them, for I am away so much that I really feel I know little of the constructive forces in my community.  I always feel that teachers are among the most important influence in any community.
In the evening we all attended Secretary and Mrs. Morgenthau's annual clambake.  It was cold, but the big bonfire looked warm and we all wore plenty of warm garments and went into the house later to dance.
This morning I rose early to ride, and we all went to church.  Later we had a group of guests at luncheon.
(Copyright 1940, by United Features Syndicate)
