
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Wednesday —Miss Grace Reavy of the New York State Civil Service Commission, and Mrs,. Edward Conger, our local Democratic committeewoman, lunched with me yesterday. Mrs. Conger is planning a day's institute on a non-partisannonpartisan basis, for the discussion of various phases of government. This type of educational work always interests me, for I think that we women need to know the facts before we feel sure of our ground in talking with the gentlemen.
After lunch, Miss Thompson, Miss Dow and I motored down to the New York World's Fair. I had an engagement to meet Secretary and Mrs. Morgenthau and their party for dinner at 7:45, but we arrived in time to do a good many things before that. I called Miss Hickok and she and Commander Flanagan met us in the Danish pavilion. I have wanted to see this exhibit for some time and I was much interested in their pewter and silver, as well as in their pottery.
We went up to the restaurant to get ourselves a nice, cold drink, for you may have noticed that yesterday was one of the hottest days which we have had here this summer. I don't imagine that iced coffee is particularly Danish, but their coffee is very good and they obligingly gave it to us with ice on this occasion. The famous Danish pastry accompanied it. They have a wonderful cold table with hors d'oeuvres of every kind, and we all agreed we would come back for lunch or dinner some daysomeday and sample all those dishes. They brought us a Danish dessert made of a variety of berries served with cream, which we could not resist tasting. I thought it very good for hot weather.
We then visited "Tomorrow Town" with a special eye to the little houses. I have always thought that if you had all the money in the world to spend, it would not be difficult to build a house and include in it all your desires. But to get the maximum out of your money in a little house is really a problem worthy of anyone's mettle. All the furniture in a little brick house has been made by handicapped people. The little wooden house with its varieties of wood interested me very much. I ended up in what is called a musical kitchen, where the old-fashioned kitchen equipment talks itself right out of the kitchen and you see the whole kitchen transformed into a modern room equipped with all the latest electric gadgets.
From there it is only a step to the electrified farm. In the farm kitchen, a charming looking girl was demonstrating the equipment. I was fascinated by the farm refrigerator and also interested in the farm freezing apparatus. I must find out whether a single small farm can afford this equipment, or whether it should be the property of a group of farmers to make it really pay.
I saw more of the French exhibit too and think it very interesting and varied. I still have not seen the fine arts section, but that will be for another day.
It seemed to me that the fountains and fireworks were more beautiful last night than ever before. I never grow weary of seeing them.
(DISTRIBUTED BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
