
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N.Y.HYDE PARK, Monday
                  —I woke this morning to a most dazzling world. The sun was shining brightly, the evergreen boughs were weighted down with snow and the shadows beneath them created intricate patterns. I walked part of the way to the cottage from the big house, where we are staying this week, and, as always, the feet of little animals which have scurried over the snow, reminded me of the various kinds of wild lifewildlife that burrows deep in this white blanket to find some means of sustenance.
The weather is much colder and everything is frozen, so I think our snow will last for a little while. However, the President drove his own car yesterday and broke out new paths even across the fields. Though I could see anxiety written on the faces of some of those accompanying him, he had a glorious time.
This morning he is out driving around to show some friends building sites. Mrs. Scheider and I have been busy with the mail and the daily routine of work.
I expected two callers, but one of them is already twenty minutes late. I rather suspect that, because she lives on a farm a little further up the river, she may be snowed in! The main roads are open, but even our own road through the woods is none too easy to navigate. If you happen to live where the snow can drift on a road, you might easily be inaccessible to the world today!
I did not have space the other day to tell you in detail about some of the citations which were read at the Master Farmers' Dinner at Cornell. These citations are moving indeed, for they tell in brief form the history of a man and a woman's achievement. Some of the struggles and victories should inspire us all to keep on no matter how discouraged we may be.
The really thrilling thing is the accomplishments of the young boys and girls. I was impressed above everything else this year with the fact that in several cases the boys were commended for their willingness to accept responsibility. It was stated that when their fathers were away from home, they assumed the responsibility for the work on the farm and proved competent and reliable. One boy, with the help of a hired man, had, during his father's absence, taken entire charge of a herd of seventeen cows and at the same time carried on his school work and various personal interests.
Another boy, a Rural Boy Scout, had headed one of the patrols in Washington, D. C. during their jamboree last year. Two girls had apparently gone out to look for opportunities where they could be of service. One of them made her little speech of acceptance with more ease and poise than any of the boys or men had achieved.
I was impressed particularly with the fact that the opportunity to carry responsibility is something which we should make every effort to give our children.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
