
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Sunday—The Rosenwald Fund meeting at Hampton, Va., was extremely interesting and constructive. We worked from 10:00 until 1:00 o'clock and then some of us lunched with President and Mrs. MacLean. After lunch we met again for an hour and then went to Langley Field.
The commanding officer was kind enough to drive around with us and show the various types of airplanes being used for practice and patrol work. I had an opportunity to see some of the day rooms and barracks, both old and new, in which the men are living. Even the temporary buildings seem to me very comfortable, though they do have to have double decker beds in many places.
One of the of the officers, who was with another member of the party, said that he had flown the President in France during the last war. I am sorry I did not have a chance to speak to him, for I am sure the President would have been interested to hear from him.
The weather on Friday continued to be rainy most of the day, and the prospects of flying Friday night or Saturday morning were so poor that Mrs. David Levy decided to drive with me to Richmond and take the train back to New York City, in order to be sure of being here for an engagement which we both had last night. Our train was nearly two hours late, but I slept and felt that I had had quite a long night.
I lunched with a friend and did a little shopping, but spent most of the day doing things about the house. Today I have said good-byegoodbye to two friends who have gone to the country for the summer. I envy them, for the skies are clear and there certainly is a feeling of real spring in the air, in spite of a chilly wind.
I think the failure to evolve some plan by which India could be given a greater sense of independence and security in the future, has been a great disappointment to many people. One can notcannot help hoping that some new way will be worked out whereby the people of India may feel that the future belongs more surely to them in their own land.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
