
                  
                     HYDE PARK, unremarkableN.Y., Monday—Yesterday was a lovely day. After church, the President stayed for a vestry meeting, so Major Hooker and I went on home and very soon our three luncheon guests arrived, Mrs. J.R. Roosevelt, Mrs. Price Collier, my husband's aunt, and Mr. Bernard M. Baruch. A small party, but a pleasant one and I was particularly glad to see them all. My husband's aunt is planning to go to Campobello shortly after I get back.
Mrs. James Forrestal, whose husband, Under Secretary of the Navy, is now in Honolulu, brought her two boys with three young English boys, who are spending the summer with her, over for a swim in the afternoon.
The President spent an hour picking out the trees which he is going to give from his woods for the landscaping for the new school grounds, and then picked us up at the cottage and we went up to Mrs. Tracy Dows' home. There, in her living room, her son, Mr. Olin Dows, showed us the murals which he has finished and which are going into the Hyde Park post-officepostoffice.
He has certainly done a wonderful piece of historical research and they are delightful murals. I hope that a great many people will stop to see them and enjoy them, as they motor on the Albany Post Road. They tell us that a good many people stop at the Rhinebeck, N.Y., post-officepostoffice to see the murals which Mr. Dows did there. Every time I hear that people really get pleasure out of these paintings, which have an historical interest as well as an artistic one, I rejoice, for I feel that we are adding permanently to the cultural heritage of our country.
At seven-thirty this morning we were eating our breakfast on the porch and by eight o'clock we were on the road. We stopped to see our friends, Miss Esther Lape and Miss Elizabeth Read, and had an early lunch with them. Then we were off again and I think we are making such good time we will be at our destination fairly early tomorrow. My husband was very happy on Sunday morning to get a telephone call from a friend who is staying with his mother and who told him that she is feeling much better and everything is going smoothly.
I was interested a few days ago to get a notice from the Bureau of Ordnance in the Navy Department. They are planning to give contractors who do a particularly good job on navy orders, an insignia for both their plants and their workers. Plants which are up to, or ahead of, schedule will be permitted to fly the flag of the Ordnance Bureau, the "crossed Dahlgren guns and anchor." In addition, a special emblem will be worn by workers in the plants, bearing the name of the company as well as the insignia. A list will be published shortly of the first companies to receive this recognition. I am happy the good work will receive this recognition.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
