
                  
                     ChicagoCHICAGO, Thursday—Yesterday afternoon I had the pleasure of seeing Air Commodore P. Huskinson and Mrs. Huskinson. Dame Rachel E. Crowdy had given him a letter of introduction to my husband, and so he came to tea. Air Commodore Huskinson is the inventor of the 4,000 and the 12,000 pound bomb now being used. He is a most interesting man who has won a victory over a handicap which he suffered in this war, and therefore he is an inspiration to all who meet him.
In the evening I attended the first anniversary celebration of the USO club operated here by the Salvation Army. They had a wonderful birthday cake which I was privileged to cut, but fortunately only one slice fell to my knife, or I think I would have been busy for a long time.
Today I am in Chicago. I arrived here very early this morning, and managed to get a few hours of sleep at the hotel before speaking on the responsibilities of citizenship at the convention of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America. I will attend the luncheon given by the women's auxiliaries. I am returning to New York, since for the next few days I must be in the country seeing that some necessary painting and work is done in the house. When one has so little time at home, it is hard to see that the things which must be done are done, so that the house can be used when it is needed.
On the 19th of this month, the June issue of the Woman's Home Companion is publishing an article describing the program on "Education for Democracy" which has been used so successfully in Springfield, Mass. The article was written by Helena Huntington Smith after she visited nine schools in Springfield. The interesting thing that it brings out is that racial and religious understanding seems to grow out of a state of mind.
In Springfield, they have not preached to their children. They have simply taught them facts, facts about the contributions of all the people who make up the citizens of the United States. The native sense of fair play of the American child comes to the fore when he knows that no group has a corner on patriotism or self-sacrifice or devotion to the United States.
Our ancestors came over to this country very early, when the country was weak and struggling. Some of them distinguished themselves and made a contribution to the country and its growth. The boys, however, who have only been ten or fifteen years in this country and are fighting today for their chosen country and the things for which that country stands, are making as great a contribution in their generation as any of those who can count forbearsforebears for many generations in this land.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
