
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Monday—Yesterday we had a quiet and peaceful Sunday. The high spot of the day was a talk with the President in Washington after his return. I shall be seeing him there on Tuesday evening, but I could hardly wait to hear some of the details of his trip and some news of our two sons. He did not know that the destroyer on which Franklin, Jr., is an ensign, would be anywhere near him, so it was a pleasant surprise when he was told it was part of the group of ships in attendance. I can well imagine what it meant to both Elliott and Franklin, Jr., to have this chance with their father.
I forgot to tell you yesterday about the gala benefit given under the auspices of the Berkshire Music Festival and the Boston Symphony Orchestra at Tanglewood, Mass., last Friday.
Not even the rain, which would ordinarily have spoiled most festivals, had any effect on this one. Crowds were there. The music was perfect and the speeches, including Lord Halifax's which had to be read since he could not be present to deliver it, seemed to give the audience pleasure.
We were whisked away for dinner with kind Mr. and Mrs. Myron Taylor and had a delightful time, though it nearly broke my heart to come in after Albert Spaulding had begun to play. We were able, however to hear most of the evening concert and went home very happy that we had had the opportunity to take part in this benefit, given for our United Service Organizations and the British War Relief.
Each time I go to these concerts, I am more and more impressed, with the wonderful piece of work which Miss Gertrude Robinson-Smith and her committee did in building the "Shed",," which is one of the pleasantest places I know of in which to listen to music.
I have just received a cook book, compiled by the American Friends of France, called "Specialities de la Maison." The preface is written by no less a person than Louis Bromfield and I must quote one statement:"  "A man indifferent to food not only is uncivilized, he is without a soul."
So it is fitting that the proceeds of the sale of this book should go to: "help those who are fighting for civilization, and in civilization the art of cooking holds a high place." The illustrations by Alajalov will certainly catch your eye. I have chuckled long over the cow with the top hat and the duck with bonnet strings trailing behind her. The jacket, by Clement Hurd, should surely attract you so that you cannot pass by without buying this book for your cook book shelf.
Today I am driving with Mrs. Lyman Delano to the Girl Scout Encampment near Springfield, Mass., but I shall have to tell you about that tomorrow.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
