
                  
                     Golden Beach, Fla.GOLDEN BEACH, Fla., FRidayFriday
                  —I forgot to tell you yesterday that we were extremely frivolous on Wednesday night and went to see where Miami's Four Hundred disport themselves in the evening at the Royal Palm Club. It is very attractive and there is excellent food and one of the best floor shows I have ever seen. You look through the windows to the lighted palms and think the morning sun is shining on the grrengreen, and then have to remind yourself that it was 9:00 p.m. when you came in.
There are plenty of charming ladies in the show and all are graceful and wear attractive costumes. The De Marco dance team was featured Wednesday night and was excellent. Mr. Tony Martin sang, and prefaced his singing by telling us that like many others, his evening's salaraysalary would hardly repay what he had left behind at the race track in the afternoon.
I enjoyed his singing and the management came afterwards to ask if he could come up and have his photograph taken with our group. I was very glad to have an opportunity to meet him. The one thing which seemed different from almost any night club that I had ever visited, was the frequent flash of a camera bulb. It seemed to me that everyone on the floor had been photographed before the evening was over. There is a spirit of carefree gaiety here which is contagious.
This afternoon we went over to visit some friends. I sat enthralled while the gentleman of the family told us stories of some of the quaint characters who have come his way in a long and adventurous life. Among other things, he told us of going down with a unit to establish a hospital when a tidal wave wrecked most of the City of Galveston, Texas, many years ago. It reminded me of some of the sights I had seen along the Atlantic Coast after the tidal wave of last year.
I have just been told about the Sacks Foundation, which was started with the idea of encouraging young inteior decorators and which is now contemplating including branches of musical training and fashion design in their annual competition. The competition for interior decoration is open to students in accepted institutions in Greater New York.
The design for the room receiving the first awardisaward is executed in every detail and open to the public. The current one is now ready at 505 Eighth Avenue, New York City. I think as many people as possible who are interested in developing new vocations for young people, should go to see what these young decorators have done. It is not only from the point of view of opening new opportunities that this foundation is doing a good work, it is also going to do much to educate the taste of the public, and we know that only through the desire of the puboicpublic can good work be accepted.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
