
                  HYDE PARK
                     —Yesterday was abusy, busy day! Friday morning Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen decided to be married in our little Hyde Park church and while the arrangements were all her own, there are just a few things which you like to do for any oneanyone you are fond of on an occasion such as this, and so Miss Cook, Miss Dickerman and I asked the wedding party to come back after the ceremony and have supper at our cottage with their friends. Added to the excitement of a wedding was my husband's home cominghomecoming which in itself brings plenty of occupation for every oneeveryone.
The Roosevelt Home Club was holding its annual home cominghomecoming celebration on Mr. Moses Smith's lawn at four o'clock and the usual little difficulties began to crop up!O
We spent a fairly quiet morning, in and out of the pool and I had a long and pleasant talk with Mrs. Hallie Flanagan and two of her directors from California and the South about the theatre projects. When the heat beamebecame too great we fell into the pool and came out again for more conversation, like the sea lioneslions we see in the zoonzoo ducking down and coming up for food!
After lunch I went back to the Big House to receive my various guests. My husband was due at three o'clock but the time came and no one arrived. Finally the bride and groom and Miss Fannie Hurst appeared and still no husband. And the time for our meeting was growing uncomfortably near. I called up the station to be told that the morning ceremonies in New York had been rather long and his train was late but had just gone through Poughkeepsie. Somewhat impatiently I stood on the porch and we were fifteen minutes late in getting to Moses Smith's, but the program went through rather promptly and we did succeed in getting to the church before the bride arrived!

                  Miss Lape who is staying with us, and I went riding at seven this morning as I discovered yesterday that nine was too late both for myself and the horses. We had a grand time and I think the rest of our spare time today will be spent as far as possible in the swimming pool.
