
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N.Y.HYDE PARK, Tuesday
                  —It is much warmer today and the snow is beginning to melt, but it is still beautiful, white and dazzling. The President has decided to spend another day here, but I am going back because I have too many Washington engagements tomorrow and cannot break them easily. One of them, I would not miss if I could, for I look forward with a great deal of pleasure to an evening of music tomorrow which our friend, Mr. Rene Le Roy, has arranged for us.
Yesterday evening, I dined with the Dutchess County Teachers Association at the Nelson House in Poughkeepsie. They had a good attendance and I enjoyed their musical program very much. Miss Almera Galuppo sang for us and her sister, Cora, played and led some group singing. These two sisters looked so much alike, that I had difficulty distinguishing them.
Mrs. Rundall, one of the district school superintendents, told me that one of the sisters taught music in a number of small rural schools. She is particularly successful, the children wait anxiously for her coming and enjoy every minute of her lesson.
Chorus singing is something which is growing in this country and I am glad to see it happen, for it is one of the things which has always seemed to me to be the basis for the appreciation of music you find in the Europeans. There would be no Salzburg Festival, no German, French and Italian opera, if the people did not love to sing and thereby gain a knowledge of music and an appreciation of their artists.
I was impressed by the interest shown by the whole group of teachers and I wish I had more opportunity when up here to really know the teachers of the county. They carry such a heavy responsibility for the future generation and are such fine people, that it would mean a great deal for us if we could know them better and, perhaps, we could find ways in which to make some contribution which would add to the interest of their work.
I have just received a most interesting release entitled "Ten Commandments of Good Will," issued for Brotherhood Day by the National Council of Jews and Christians. This day will be celebrated during this week in 2,000 communities and I hope everyone will subscribe to the spirit back of these commandments.
The first one reads: "I will honor all men and women regardless of their race or religion." The third and sixth also seem to me vastly important. "I will exemplify in my own life the spirit of good willgoodwill and understanding." and "I will do more than live and let live; I will live and help live." Sayings such as these should sink into every heart and be remembered every day in the year.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
