
                  WASHINGTON, Monday
                     —The White House seems quite deserted this morning. Miss Jane Brett who has been staying with me over the week endweekend and Mr. and Mrs. Earl Looker and their two daughters left this morning. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Lynch and their small daughter left yesterday afternoon and only the people who are here to attend the dinner for Mr. Farley tonight—Major Hooker and Mrs. Louis Howe are still here. Mrs. Greenway, who is attending the dinner has gone to spend the night at the British Embassy with Lady Lindsay who is another of her old friends here.
It was almost like summer out on the bridle path this morning except for the fact that a little thin coating of snow lay here and there on the grass. The air was soft and warm and there was no cold wind to make you suspect that winter is still just around the corner. Somehow I have a hope that for us down here, spring is really here for good!
The Woman's Council of the Washington Federation of Churches held its luncheon today at the Washington Hotel in the same room where the Cause and Cure of War Conference has been held for the past few years. The meeting today was a Peace Day Meeting and this morning Senator Nye addressed the group. This afternoon Miss Josephine SohainSchain who has been at the International Conference in Brussels; spent some time lately in South America, and who has succeeded Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt as President of the Cause and Cure of War group, will talk to them.
As I sat there and looked at the room full of people and realized that for many years the delegates from many different organizations all over the country have barely filled it, and that today the Washington women alone could fill it, it seemed nothing short of marvelous. Mrs. Catt has been able to make her followers take great strides.
All the movements or crusades depend for their inception and early momentum on the personality of some individual man or woman. Some oneSomeone must care tremendously and give unstintingly of themselves before an idea takes sufficient root in a number of people's minds to go forward without some tangible personality to give it interest. Mrs. Catt has done this for the peace movement among the women of this country and I think today there is an alive and interested group, ready to give real thought to the question.
There should be the same kind of a crusader amongst the men. It is only tradition that keeps men from being even more vitally interested in peace than women for they are the first line of defense. Luckily the youth of the nation, both men and women, are recognizing this fact but I still think the older generation could be of great service if some onesomeone would arise to lead the gentlemen.
