
                  
                     HYDE PARK,unremarkable N. Y., Thursday—As soon as I reached Boston yesterday, I was greeted by Johnny and Anne. We had a very satisfactory visit and were joined a little later by Franklin, JuniorJr.. I telephoned my husband and we spent some little time catching up on news of all the different members of the family. He has Ruth and her two children in the White House and I wish I could be in two places at once, for I would love to see her and Chandler and Elliott, Junior.
All too soon, the message came that Professor Zimmerman was waiting for me downstairs and Mrs. Morgenthau, Miss Thompson and I went out with him to Cambridge. There we had a delightful dinner at the Faculty Club and I enjoyed talking to my two neighbors, Mr. Jerome Green and Mr. Mather. At 8:00, we went over to the evening session of the Institute on the Children of TomorrowHarvard Summer School conference on Tomorrow's Children. Yesterday was the first of three days of meetings. It seems to be a very well attended institute. They told me there was probably some onesomeone from every State state in the Union present last night.
After speaking, I had a short talk with the reporters and then came back to the Statler Hotel, where I spent some time discussing their interests with a group of students, who are planning to go to South America. They have two months at Harvard under the direction of Mr. Louis Quintavilla and then, I believe, six weeks to two months in Mexico.
After that, they scatter, each of them going to the country he has chosen as the field of his special interest. Mr. Quintavilla says he will be disappointed if out of this group of twelve students who were at the hotel last evening, at least eight do not write really good books on some phase of South American life.
Yesterday, in driving through New Hampshire, I noticed with a great deal of interest the increase in facilities for tourists, visible in better cabins, small hotels and inns all along the way. Skiing in winter has evidently added to the income of the people of New Hampshire, for now they have visitors in some places during the winter as well as the summer.
Farming undoubtedly is still important as a means of livelihood, but I could not help feeling that the tourist trade is beginning to be just as important to some of our States states as it is to Switzerland. That poor little country must be suffering sadly now because of the lack of this trade, which has always been its main support. But, perhaps, the war is increasing the appreciation of our people for their own beauty spots.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
