
                  
                     Burlington, VermontBURLINGTON, Vt., Monday—We left Hyde Park early this morning to drive up to Burlington, Vermont, where I am attending a tea at the University of Vermont, and then giving a lecture in the evening for the Women's AuxilliaryAuxiliary of the Mary Fletcher Hospital. This column is filed on the way, so I can tell you little of the trip until tomorrow.
I am very much pleased, because it looks as though we are going to have a new receiving home for children in Washington, D. C. During the past few months, it has been possible to place children who are not delinquent in foster homes instead of the receiving home. This seems to me a great step forward.
At the other end of the welfare picture, where the old people are concerned, they tell me that certain very definite improvements have been made out at "Blue Plains." The young doctor in charge there has been able to hospitalize some of his worst cases at Gallinger Hospital and to improve the care of those who are bedridden in the home. The food, I am told, is much better and it is served hot.
This is an advance and yet I hope very much that eventually the four institutions—The National Training School for Girls, The Industrial Training School, The Home for the Aged and one other industrial school—will all have new buildings. They may then be housed in a more suitable place where they can be separate, and yet so planned as to make a saving in management costs possible.
The Congressional committees, who made these investigations into these institutions last year, have made these improvements possible on the recommendation of the District of Columbia officials. It must be a great gratification for them all to know that they have brought so much comfort and happiness to the old, and so much more hope to the unfortunate youngsters, who have had to face some difficult situations in the way they had to be cared for in the past.
I wish very much that all the institutions for young people could be thought of primarily from the point of view of rehabilitation. Rehabilitation of bodies which have been insufficiently fed, of minds which have not been able to develop properly under the conditions which they have faced and, finally, the rehabilitation of emotional natures that have known too little security and love to make normal growth possible.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
