
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Thursday—Tuesday afternoon I went to a sale for the benefit of Yugo-SlavYugoslav prisoners of war. They had some very lovely embroideries and some charming little things bearing the Yugo-SlavYugoslav emblem.
Yesterday morning, I had the pleasure of sitting in, for an hour-and-a-half, with the Women's Advisory Committee of the War Man- -PowerManpower Commission. I hope, in answering their questions, I was able to tell them some things that will be useful to them in formulating their plans.
There is one thing which I should like to write a word about in this column, namely, that I find a number of people seem to consider that when I travel I do so for pleasure. Of course, we have all been asked to curtail as much as possible, travel which has no real purpose beyond passing enjoyment.
It is quite true that in all my traveling, I find many ways in which I enjoy myself, but no trip is undertaken without a serious object in view. For a number of reasons, many avenues in the war effort are closed to me, but certain avenues are open and I am using them as far as possible in ways I feel are useful.
I know many people will disagree with me as to what I think is useful. This must always be so, no matter what one does. However, one must live according to one's own lights and use what poor talents one may have in the ways that are open.
I had the pleasure yesterday of seeing Judge Robert Marx, of Cincinnati, Ohio, for a few minutes and hearing about a charity which has been carried on in that city for 41 years. Every Thanks givingThanksgiving they bring from every corner of the city and outlying neighborhoods, under privilegedunderprivileged and handicapped children, the number reaching into the thousands.
They give them a sumptuous Thanksgiving dinner, and then all those who need warm clothing for the winter receive an ample supply. Judge Marx's face glowed as he told me the story. I must say that it is good to know that in these times of stress, we do not give up these- charitiesthese charities, which mean so much to the children and to their parents.
I am here in New York City, where I attended last night a dinner in celebration of the tenth anniversay of the Neue Volkszeitung.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
