
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday—Yesterday evening, in New York City, Mrs. Henry Goddard Leach called for Mrs. Morgenthau and me to go to the Women's City Club dinner. It was the 25th anniversay of the founding of the club. I was sorry that my old friend, Mrs. Norman de R. Whitehouse unremarkable(de small letters space capital R. period), in whose house the idea of a woman's city club was first discussed, could not be present. But Dr. Josephine Baker, who was among the founders, presided with grace and efficiency.
I did not join the club until my husband returned to New York City in 1920 from Washington, but I have had the good fortune to know many of the original founders. I remember with affection and admiration, Miss Mary Garrett Hay's leadership in the first days when I became active on the board. I was sorry too that Mrs. Edward Dreier unremarkable(correct) who was president during most of the years when I worked there, was away and could not be present.
I think the women can be proud of the record of their accomplishments. But, above everything else, it seems to me that they should be encouraged by the fact that they have been able to induce a number of women to take an active part on committees, which are really informing themselves on municipal government.
I was particularly pleased last night to note the youth of many of the chairmanchairmen of the committees, who stood up to take their bows. I have always felt that when young people come into an organization, that organization is on a firm foundation and will continue to grow.
The platform for next year was read by the club's new president, Miss Bartlett. Then Mr. Newbold Morris, who frequently pinch-hitpinch-hits very successfully for the busy and overburdened Mayor of New York City, discussed this platform and gave the point of view of a city official on some of the things which the women suggested.
His talk was excellent and the audience listened attentively. It was a tribute to him and also to the educational work done by the Women's City Club in the past few years.
Mrs. Morgenthau and I flew to Washington this morning. It was certainly grand to return and be met by so many smiling faces, to find the President feeling much better and our son, Elliott, and his wife, Ruth, still here. In these times, when our children scatter to parts unknown, under orders, even a day or two, or a few hours here and there, make a difference in life. The President started in soon after my arrival with a stream of visitors and I went directly to my press conference.
In a few minutes I shall go to lunch with the ladies of the Senate. So you see, the Washington routine begins again with great rapidity.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
