
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—I had some very pleasant guests at lunch yesterday. One of them, just back from Europe and stationed here for a short time, was able to tell me news of our son in that area. In addition, one of my cousins has brought his little boy to spend Easter and I know nothing nicer than the undisguised enthusiasm of a little child! He walked out in the White House grounds Saturday morning, looked all about and said to his father: "Isn't this a beautiful place?" The rest of us may think it, but we so rarely say it.
As I walked along the street Saturday morning, I saw something which amused me greatly. A sailor and his wife, or perhaps it may have been his girl, were walking down the street. She handed him her bag, the better to play with a very lovely new fur jacket. She was so evidently showing it off, and in spite of the fact that I knew she must be very warm, I could not help feeling pleased for her that she had on something which gave her so much pleasure. It is wonderful to be young, when "things" can give you pleasure!
The newly appointed Minister of Syria, Dr. Nazem Koudsi, called on me in the afternoon, and a little later I had the pleasure of seeing Mrs. Carter Collins of Fort Benning, Georgia. Miss Katherine Lenroot of the Children's Bureau has been telling me about her for some time, since she has done a great deal of work with Army wives there.
At 5 o'clock Miss Gertrude Warren, of the Department of Agriculture, brought Sgt. Lester Schlup to see me to tell me of Edison College in Florida.
This is Easter Sunday, and Miss Thompson and I as usual went to the early service at the Unknown Soldier's Tomb, conducted by the Grand Encampment of Knights Templar. At 11 o'clock, with some of my other guests, I went to the services at St. Thomas Church.
A few friends came to lunch, and my two nieces from school and college are here for their short Easter vacation, so we have quite a family party, to which my old friend, Mrs. Charles Fayerweather of New Lebanon, N. Y.N.Y., is added.
I have just received word that April 2 through 7 will be observed by a quarter of a million boys throughout the country as National Boys Club
                   Week. This year will mark the 39th anniversary of the founding of Boys'Boys Clubs of America, a philanthropic organization headed by the Hon. Herbert Hoover. There are 250 member clubs, which provide places for wholesome recreation under constructive leadership for boys in congested areas. This year the boys are saving their pennies to buy a portable ice cream plant to send to some soldiers in the Pacific.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
