A lovely day and I was glad to be able to show the White House to two young friends who are teaching in the school at Arthurdale, West Virginia and to three friends from Albany, New York, under such auspicious circumstances—sunlight makes a great difference I find, in one's impressions even of beautifully proportioned rooms! After a tour of the upstairs rooms, I turned them over to a better guide than I am, for the rest of the house, and then I took up my regular morning duties, getting out for a ride before eleven o'clock. When I am in my riding clothes, the dogs know that they are going to have a run and they never let me out of their sight until we actually get away, so every time I move from one room to another, they move too. But after we get home, they are quite willing to lie curled up for the rest of the day, having had all the exercise they need!
I was home by twelve for two appointments; a few people for luncheon then at three o'clock I went to 
                     Fort Meyer
                   and saw a part of the musical drill. This is the last exhibition ride of the winter and Mr. Wilbur Carr, Assistant Secretary of State, took the salute for the Secretary of State as this was a Diplomatic Day and many diplomats were present. These rides are really very remarkable. The musical ride was the most perfectly timed and controlled horse and man exhibition I have ever seen. These same men went up to the Madison Square Garden Horse Show this year dressed as Spanish vaqueros but to-day they were in uniform. I hold my breath always until the artillery drill is over for those great, heavy gun carriages just clear each other in some of the maneuvers by about a foot in that small space and why they don't take off a door as they swing out at full gallop, I don't know.
I had to leave after the officers jumping class which is always exciting, but I had a tea at four at the White House and tonight we have the pleasure of having Governor Lehman dine with us. So ends a fairly peaceful day!
