I woke this morning to a snow stormsnowstorm, much to my regret for I had hoped to ride with our son, John, who is home for his mid-year vacation. He and James came down with me yesterday and James was supposed to leave on the nine o'clock train this morning, so I got up in time to sit with him while he ate his breakfast in my sitting room at 8:15. However, the hour arrived and no James and by 8:30 I was distinctly nervous but he appeared and announced calmly that he had decided to take a ten o'clock train and have breakfast with us!
Miss EannieFannie Hurst came down from New York yesterday to serve on a panel last night at the regular Sunday Evening Town Hall meeting which is held every week at the Shoreham Hotel. I spoke on "Have Women The Right To Work".Work." The panel consisting of Miss Josephine Roche, Mrs. Lucille Foster MacMillanMcMillan, Mr. George Creel, Mr. Huston Thompson and Mr. Culbertson, as well as Miss Hurst, did much to put over my argument though I did have to answer a few mildly doubting Thomases! I was much pleased that something had brought Miss Hurst to Washington and had given me an opportunity to see her and have her spend a night with us.
As she and James came into breakfast simultaneously, she remarked that she liked this family because there was nothing rigid about anyone's plans! Too great emphasis is rarely laid on details with us. This amused me very much for I can remember when members of my family made their yearly pilgrimages from New York City to the country and they had to be on the same day every spring and we had to return to the City every fall on exactly the same date which had been set six months before! Life has gradually taught me to be adaptable, never to make an issue of little things, to remember that the objective is important but not to force everybody else into your own pattern. Living with a large family has become much simpler since I outgrew some of the rigidity of my early bringing up. I sometimes wonder if this isn't one of the things which young people should learn when they first start out in the world for themselves. in the world
