
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday —With me on the Grandmothers'Grandmothers War Bond
League broadcast for the Treasury Department on Monday, were three
very interesting grandmothers, as you may have gathered. As I looked
at Mrs. Low, the Chinese grandmother, I could not help marvelling
at her ability to go from door to door selling bonds each day, for
she is surely well over 70. The other two were very young grandmothers,
and I feel sure they will put many of us to shame by their
activity for quite a while.
While we are talking about bonds, I must tell you that I have
had some questions lately that I think are worthy of your consideration.
One of my correspondents says that he thinks it would be an
encouraging thing for our boys overseas if, instead of telling them
about the difficulties of rationing and wartime economies, we sang
the praises of the extraordinary achievements in selling bonds. If
we told them about the people in the neighborhood who are working and
buying bonds, it would give the boys a sense of pride and satisfaction
in their own communities. They might even have a greater
feeling of security in their futures, because they would realize
that the people at home were really thinking about them and their welfare
when they bought bonds.
While I was in New York City, I had hoped to see a play called
"Mrs. January and Mr. X," but that proved impossible so I look forward
to seeing it at some later time. However, I did see a preview
of a new play which Mr. John Golden is producing called: "But Not
Goodbye." One of the people with me enjoyed the play very much and
kept saying: "I like it because I think I might almost have written
it myself," which was a tribute to the reality and naturalness of
the situations. The fact that the characters were real people whom
you might see in any one of our home townshometowns deepened this impression.
The idea is original, if somewhat uncomfortable to contemplate, and
I think you will spend an amusing evening and take away much food
for thought!
In New York City I was also presented with a batch of doughnuts
by the CampfireCamp Fire Girls, which they are selling for their annual fund
raising campaign. I hope everybody will be doughnut conscious this
week, for the little girls told me that each one of them had to sell
40 dozen, which is quite an obligation for a youngster!
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
