
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—The other night in New York City, I went to a play by Rose Franken called "Doctors Disagree" which I believe she wrote some time ago. I think she must have been influenced a bit by Moliere, who put a little more business on the stage than is needed for the full flow of main ideas. I found "Doctors Disagree" an interesting play and we had a very enjoyable evening. Whatever else may be said about Rose Franken's work, she deals in ideas and she leaves you with something to think about.
Yesterday, in the early evening, I attended the graduation exercises of a group of women belonging to the Women's Brigade of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. They have been taking Red Cross courses in home nursing, nurses' aid work and first aid, as well as doing a good deal of production work.
All of this is done as part of their civilian defense activity and that means many of these girls who work all day give much of their time to volunteer work evenings and on their days off. They sang a delightful and amusing song for me. One of their managers sang a song of his own composition, which might easily become one of our popular war time songs. It is called "On the Road to Tokyo," but he likes to call it "Let's Go," because that is the way the chorus begins.
In following up yesterday's column, I want to give you a creed which has been sent to me by the Women of Good Will in Chicago. It seems a good one to subscribe to and to live by, if we hope to build a future world of good willgoodwill.
"I hereby dedicate myself to willing good in every human relationship.
"In my home, I will seek to create an atmosphere of understanding and good willgoodwill toward other members of my own family and toward all members of the family of God.
"In my community I will use my influence for justice and fair play against all unfair discrimination arising from differences of race, creed, class or nationality.
"In my country, I will stand for just legislation and equal opportunity for every human being, which is the basis of true democracy.
"In all my relationships, I will grant to others the rights and privileges that I demand for myself.
"This determined willing of good, I, as a woman of good willgoodwill, consider my most important contribution to winning the war and the peace."
