
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, WEDNESDAYWednesday
                  —I forgot to tell you yesterday about a delightful lunch which Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Gould, the editors of the Ladies Ladies' Home Journal, gave in Washington on Monday. They invited Mrs. Henry Wallace, Mrs. Cordell Hull, Mrs. Sumner Welles and representatives of the Latin-American Republics and a pin of beautiful design was presented to each guest. The pin combines all the flags of the Americas, making a most decorative as well as symbolic piece of jewelry. Mr. Gould hopes that this pin may become as popular an emblem of the unity of our nations as were the combination of the Allied flags in the last War. The difference is that this is made of a more permanent material which symbolizes, we hope, the more permanent nature of our understanding and cooperation.
Yesterday morning as I walked along 57th Street, I saw that Mr. Rosenberg's Gallery is holding an exhibition of von van Gogh paintings for the benefit of the Red Cross. I went in and to my surprise, found some ten or twelve paintings which I had never seen before. They belong to a period of von van Gogh's painting which was unfamiliar to me. It seemed a happier period and the painting which I liked the best, faces you at the end of the Gallery gallery and is a most beautiful vista of fields and gently rolling hills.
I spent some hours with the dentist and saw many people at the house; then attended a meeting of the Washington Bureau of the International Student Service. In the evening we went to see "Cafe Crown",," a charming, though not absorbing play. It depends largely on the acting for its success, and it is fortunate that Mr. Sam Jaffe and Mr. Morris Carnovsky are such dependable actors. There are innumerable laughs and that is good for the soul.
Today I am going down to Long Island to spend a few hours with my daughter-in-law, Ethel. She and the baby have moved home and I am most anxious to see how little Franklin, III, likes his new baby brother, who is still a stranger to his father. Little Chandler Roosevelt said a sweet thing about her new baby brother a few days ago. They were looking at him in his crib and decided that he looked sad, and Chandler looked up at her mother and said: "It must be because he has never seen his daddy, mummy."
I will be back in New York City early enough to take a train to Philadelphia where I am attending the Gimbel award dinner before flying back to Washington tonight.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
