
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday—I saw a blubirdbluebird and a robin yesterday! It is not as warm here and spring is not as far along as in Washington. Still, the feel of it is in the air, and there is a fresh, green look about the shoots that are poking their heads above ground which makes you want to settle down in the country and have nothing whatsoever to do with bricks and mortar for a long while. But bricks and mortar exist and engagements go on, and people concentrate in big cities, so here I am in New York, where at 1 o'clock I go to the Cosmopolitan Club to speak at one of their membership lunches.
At 3:30 I go on to Carnegie Hall to celebrate the awarding of the Army-Navy E to the Lighthouse Workship of the Blind, and at 4:30 I attend a meeting of the sponsoring committee preparing for the African Dance Festival on April 4 at Carnegie Hall.
At 7 o'clock I attend a dinner at the Commodore Hotel given by the New York Section of the National Council of Jewish Women, when "Council House," a settlement house built in 1929 by the Council of Jewish Women for an underprivileged Jewish group, is being presented to an equally underprivileged Negro community now settled in this area.
Midnight will see me back on the train to Washington and I think I shall sleep well, since the day looks somewhat busy!
I read with interest this morning's column by Walter Lippmann on the San Francisco conference, and I feel that his remarks are justified if there is the faintest idea of actually writing a charter to cover the future peace of the world. If the aim and object of the delegates, however, is to agree on some kind of world organization, which will then, at some future time, proceed to meet and slowly and painstakingly evolve a charter covering the first points which present themselves as important to us all, then we should have hopes of success.
A body of international law can only be built up over the years, it seems to me, and it would be impossible at any one time to cover in any charter the various situations which will necessitate changes to meet new and specific conditions at different times. The main objective, from my point of view, is to have a place where anything which troubles the world can be brought out and aired. It will be known by all whenever anyone is foolhardy enough to want to go to war; and their impulses in that direction can be controlled, not by one or two people, but by the united public opinion of the whole group of nations.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
