
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Thursday
                  —Last night I had the pleasure of listening to Pearl Buck tell about the land she knows best—China, and afterward I took the midnight train for New York.

                  Mrs. Hopkins, Lisa Cook and I had breakfast together and then I spent a good part of the morning at the Neighborhood Playhouse Studios watching a class in dramatics and seeing the auditions given to prospective students.
This afternoon has been largely spent in getting an idea of the work done by the National Youth Administration in the City of New York. I, like Mr. McCloskey
                  , like young people, which is, after all, half the battle in getting their point of view.
We first visited a Naturalization. Bureau on West Street where several hundred young people are employed. I think it must be a satisfaction for them to know how great the assistance is that they are rendering in this busy Government Building. The registration was way behind and they are gradually catching up—thanks to the work done by these youngsters.
There was a cunning, stolid little boy we passed in the halls, whose mother and father were getting out their papers. As I looked at all these people and thought of the new citizens that were being made I was glad that the N.Y.A.NYA was getting a chance to help in the making of future citizens and that the young people may see now very highly prized citizenship is in this country and how many people want it.
From there we went to the Hudson Guild where young people are helping in every branch of the work. I had the unique experience of hearing Happy Easter said in four different languages, and finally all said it in English. We ended up at the colored Y.W. in Harlem where the N.Y.A.NYA again seems to be doing satisfactory work.
A busy day but an extremely interesting one and, from my point of view, satisfactory; for if we can't cover the whole world it is satisfactory to know that what is being done is worthwhile.
