
                  
                     Beverly Hills, CaliforniaBEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Sunday—I forgot to mention on Friday that, on October 11th, the 1200 Y.M.C.A.'sYMCA's throughout the United States celebrated Founder's Day. They will go on observing Founder's Week until the 13th. I imagine, in many places, certain observances will be continued even beyond that date.
I hope that everywhere the people of the communities will renew their interest in the work which the Y.M.C.A.YMCA does for the young men in the neighborhood. The "Y" building has furnished to many a boy his only place of recreation, as well as the only quiet spot where he can read with any comfort or talk with his friends.
The services rendered, however, could be made infinitely more valuable if, in every community, more people would familiarize themselves with the needs of the boys in the communities, see that the "Y" was physically able to meet them, and help the secretaries in charge to plan a program of activities so as to make it worth whileworthwhile. There never was a time when this service to youth was more needed than it is today, and we can notcannot afford to neglect it.
The weather was so lovely Friday, I could not bear to stay indoors, so Miss Thompson and I took a long drive in the afternoon. Early Saturday morning we left Hyde Park with some sense of excitement, for Miss Thompson was returning to Washington for a week, and I was taking off in the afternoon by plane for Los Angeles to be gone for a week. The day in New York City was filled, as usual, but this time with purely personal occupations. Some fittings of winter clothes, the buying of a hat and the inevitable visit to the hairdresser before a trip. Free time is somewhat uncertain on these flying trips, so I always feel the necessary things should be done before I start.
I left at 5:10 from La GuardiaLaGuardia Field and enjoyed flying westward. I never have become enamored of sleeper planes, though I like flying at night very much. However, I recognize that it is comfortable to lie down even if it is inconvenient to undress and dress on a plane. One great blessing is that when you are once in bed, you can notcannot be called out by newspaper photographers at the various stops, and so I am often not conscious when we land and take off again.
I love coming into Los Angeles early in the morning and late at night. It is exciting to anticipate meeting one of the children, even though I may wonder how glad he is to meet me at a very early hour, for I arrived at Los Angeles soon after 7:00 and it takes about an hour to drive to the airport.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
