
                  NEW YORK, Wednesday
                     —Last evening in Syracuse was a remarkable gathering of Democratic women from all over the state of New York, and in addition there were some men! These gentlemen came from Syracuse, or had brought their wives by motor from different parts of the State. One lady told me she brought me greetings from California!
When I think back to the early days of the organization of women which Miss Harriet May Mills began and Mrs. Daniel O'Day continued, a meeting such as that one last night, seems almost incredible. These women are spending two days listening to speeches and discussing programs of work. Miss Mills, good organization Democrat as she was and feminist before everything else, would indeed have been pleased to hear Mr. Farley give credit last night to Miss Molly Dewson, his associareassociate on the National Democratic Committee, and to the women all over the Sstate for the work which they have learned to do so well.
That they take it seriously no one will doubt who watched their faces during the speeches. Mrs. O'Day spoke, as did Postmaster General Farley and they were given keen attention. Another lady stopped me in the hall to tell me she had had to bring her little girl with her, a drive of two hundred miles, and the child could not neglect her school work, so she had spent the entire afternoon in their hotel room keeping up with what was happening at school. A child whose mother takes her Democratic work so seriously is certainly growing up in an atmosphere where citizenship is active, not passive and where responsibilities are taken seriously.
Mrs. Scheider and I got up rather early this morning, for Syracuse is on standard time, and Hyde Park and New York City are on Daylight time. We left Syracuse according to their time at five-five a.m. which to us of course, was six-five! We had the road practically to ourselves with the country looking as fresh and as lovely as it always does on a sunny day in June. We came through lovely country, cutting across from Syracuse to Catskill and for the first time I came over the Rip Van Winkle Bridge. What a very modern structure to recall the stories which we were all told in our childhood about the Catskill Mountains, HendrikHendrick Hudson and his bowl-playing companions and Old Rip Van Winkle.
The whole trip only took us four hours and a half, and we have spent two busy hours at Hyde Park and are starting shortly for the train and New York City. I always manage to have errands in New York to do, and soon after six we will have to be at the broadcasting station.
