
                  
                     Hyde Park, N.Y.HYDE PARK, Friday—I seem to be recording various day-by-day meetings. Yesterday five gentlemen came up here who serve on the advisory committee for the government homestead at Arthurdale, W.  Va. I wish that everyone of these homesteads could have an advisory committee. I think it would be a great help to the project manager, though at times the officials at Washington probably find outside interest a bit trying.
Still, looking over the last few years I feel sure that the balance of advantage lies with the homesteads which have had outside advisory committees. These committees should consist, as far as possible, of interested citizens in the localities, with some government representatives and some outsiders who have contacts with interests of use to any growing community.
Miss Clapp, who started the Arthurdale school, joined us for lunch. She has written the story of that school and the part it played in the development of the community and its people. I hope before long it will be published, because I feel it may be helpful to others who are struggling with difficult situations and cannot see any hopeful ending to their struggles.
Nothing could have been more difficult than the situation faced by these homesteaders. Miss Clapp is largely responsible for the initial steps which helped them to solve for themselves many of their problems. She is now editing "Progressive Education" and we had an interesting time, after the others had left, talking over various new educational projects.
Rain came down in torrents yesterday and as a result Mrs. Scheider and I gave up our plan for a drive into Connecticut to see a friend of ours. This gave us unexpected time for work that should have been done sometime ago. Between times I played Sistie three games of table tennis. Being very poor at it myself, and Sistie being very new, we really were quite evenly matched.
At 6:30, Mrs. Scheider, Miss Cook, and I decided that we would drive up to Norrie Park and try dining on the terrace of the little restaurant. The entrance to this park is on Route 9, just before you reach the village of Staatsburg. I had a few qualms before-hand as to our enjoyment, for it is right on the river and I thought we might be eaten up by mosquitoes. I was wrong, however. We sat and watched the view unmolested.
This little restaurant has a table of Swedish hors d'oeuvres, which makes dining there quite an interesting and novel entertainment. I recommend it. One can feast one's eyes on the beauty of the Hudson River and really get a good meal at the same time.
The skies are still threatening today, but I suppose we should be thankful that it is cool.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
