The Potomac rose yesterday until you could see the shore line was far higher than usual. I anticipated the flood areas ever since I came through Ohio and Pennsylvania last week, so I was not surprised this morning when my husband announced that all plans had been changed and we would not leave here until tomorrow noon at the earliest, and perhaps not then.
None of us could have been really happy, it seems to me, away from the place one feels is the center of information and activity. I learned long ago that hard as it is for everyone to make changes once the President has decided on a trip, it is better to do a difficult thing at the start, rather than put it off to find a much more difficult one to be faced later on.
Despite the rain I still hoped to ride this morning, but the water is over the paths. The dogs were disappointed and looked at me as I took off my riding clothes with the expression of disappointed children. All I could do was to explain that my intentions had been good, but Nature was "agin" us.
At 11 o'clock, my mother-in-law, Mrs. Scheider, Mrs. Helm and I, went to the Amaryllis Show which takes place every Spring in the Department of Agriculture greenhouses. They are remarkable plants, and when you enter you appreciate it as a show for they make a wonderful sight in a mass. Individually they do not appeal to me as flowers I would want about me, or in my own garden. Yet, one has to admire the texture and the color of the individual plants. They vary from pale green to white, and from light pink to a deep dark red.
Two friends came for luncheon. My mother-in-law lunched with her son and left immediately after that for New York. I shall go to see Colonel Howe this afternoon, but outside of that the rest of the day is just time to catch up on all the thousand and one things I have left half done, or have taken with me to do on the way.
Whether we leave at noon tomorrow or not, is still on the "laps of the Gods".Gods." In any case I am glad that we are staying here, for if the need arises the President is immediately available.
