
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Thursday—We had a two hour meeting yesterday morning of the United States Committee for the careCare of European Children. Miss Honeybun, who has come over from Great Britain to see the children who are here, gave a most interesting talk, explaining some of the difficulties of adjustment of a British child to an American home. This is particularly true of the older children. She also told us of the difficulties which exist in the homes of Great Britain as well, where the life over here is not well understood.
The older boys are rapidly going home now and she feels it would be well for many of the girls, who reach the age of seventeen or eighteen, to do the same. Miss Honeybun is a mostsympathetic person with a real sense of humor. It is easy to see how she succeeds in making her contacts with the groups of British children, and what a joy it must be to them when she can tell them she has met their parents in Great Britain.
Lately the Committee has been successful in bringing over several groups of refugee children from other parts of the European Continent. These children present a different problem, for many of them will never see their parents again, since they have been left behind in concentration camps in various European countries.
In the afternoon I went to the Textile Workers Union of America convention in Carnegie Hall. I had a rather amusing experience between lunch and this meeting. My time was somewhat short and I thought I could pick up a taxi, but it was raining and every one of them passed me with a passenger already ensconced within. Though I held something over my head, my dress gradually completely soaked. The little fur piece I had around my neck looked like a drowned rat!
I remembered an experience I once had in Rochester, Minnesota, when my skirt, being soaked through, began gradually to shrink, until I thought I was going to be left with only a ruffle around my knees. I looked apprehensively at my skirtyesterday, but fortunately it showed no such propensities. At last I went on the platform at Carnegie Hall in a distinctly damp condition, but still looking comparatively normal.
In the evening I went to see a play called: "Tomorrow The World." I found it very interesting. Some of the critics have said that the change in the little Nazi boy, around whom the problems of the family center, is too sudden, but it did not seem so to me. I found it an absorbing play dealing with the problem which must be faced in the future, not only by one family, but by the nations of the world.
It was a little exhausting, however, and don't go if all you want is an amusing evening, because you will find yourself lying awake thinking about if for many hours afterwards. It is very well acted and I thought every part was well taken and the whole performance exceptionally good.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
