
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Tuesday—I have been here in Hyde Park the past few days and have written and sent off my report on American Red Cross activities in the Southwest Pacific to Mr. Norman Davis, Chairman of the American Red Cross. Of course, I could not see all the work which is being done. Still, in every place, I saw as many of the Red Cross workers as possible and all the different types of work which are being carried on, so that I have a very comprehensive picture of the whole field covered by Red Cross activities.
I have also written one article since I have been here. Even though I have had time to enjoy long walks and rides through the woods, it has not been a wholly free time, because the mail in itself is taking a good many hours daily.
Many people are hungry for even a scrap of news from the part of the world where those whom they love have spent many months, and I am deeply grateful for the opportunity that has been mine to see conditions and activities which are of interest to so many individuals. Over and over again on this trip, I wished I could be the mother, wife or sweetheart whom the boy really longed to see. Since that was not possible, I hope that someone who came from home, who often knew and could remember something about the particular place that was home to him, brought the people and the country which he loves a little nearer.
The hospitality which many families in New Zealand and Australia have extended to our boys is something for which we women here are very grateful. I brought home some letters which a Red Cross worker in one of our hospitals in New Zealand gave me, because I knew families in this country would be glad to see how wholeheartedly their boys had been taken in tointo the family life and what wonderful ambassadors they have proved to be. I quote from only one today, but I shall quote from several more in future columns.
"May I say how much we enjoyed having your men? They were the finest 'ambassadors' that America could have sent to any part of this country. Each hostess thought her boys the best, and we have adopted them into our families. We have never had greater joys in our Red Cross experience and feel that we have been highly honored in having these men."
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATEM INC.)
