
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Sunday—Friday afternoon, at the White House, I received the National Council of Negro Women, who are holding their convention in the District of Columbia. In the evening, Miss Thompson and I went to an annual dinner party which brings together some of our best friends in Washington, and which we look forward to every autumn.
Saturday morning we flew up to New York City. Mrs. Genevieve Forbes Herrick gave a charming lunch at the Cosmopolitan Club for Mrs. Henry Wallace, which we both attended. From there I went to the rooms of the British War Relief Society, the Robert Burns Circle Division. They are planning their annual ball and entertainment, which takes place at the Hotel Astor on December 28th.
At this party they hope to raise much of the money needed for their war relief fund, and so Mr. Newbold Morris was present yesterday to sell me the first ticket for this benefit. Both Mr. Morris and I were presented with British Emblems to wear on our coats, and I felt extremely important because a Scotchman in uniform piped me into the room. I nearly hit my head on the back of his bagpipes, but dodged just in time, and hope I looked sufficiently dignified to warrant so much honor.
Then I went as fast as the traffic would let me to the Biltmore Hotel, where Mrs. William H. Good, head of the New York State Women's Division for the Campaign, was holding a large reception in honor of Mrs. Wallace and myself. The crowd was very great and I was forcibly reminded that New York City is a Democratic stronghold. It was pleasant to see so many familiar faces I used to see more often when we lived in New York State.
My one regret was that, because there were so many people in the line, I could not leave it to go to see my mother-in-law, who was there. When I left to keep an appointment, I was not successful in finding out where she was, so I never saw her. I had several appointments at the Biltmore and it was nearly seven o'clock before I returned to my apartment.
Tonight I must be in Boston, and so I gave up going to the country as I had originally hoped, realizing that I could not get away in time to be home for dinner. Instead, we went to the play, a light and amusing comedy "George Washington Slept Here",," by George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart. The leading woman's role, played by Jean Dixon, suits her perfectly and she does it delightfully. In fact, the whole cast is good and the dialogue most entertaining. If you want a really relaxing, pleasant evening, I recommend that you join the throngs which already seem to fill the theatre every night,
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
