
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday
                  —We had a concert last night after the dinner to the Chief Justice. The artists came from our sister republics in the South. Senorita Bidu Sayao looked charming and had a most lovely soprano voice. Senor Carlo Morelli also delighted everyone and I wish I could hear him sing at the Metropolitan Opera House. I particularly enjoyed Senor Armando Palacios's playing of the Chopin Waltz in "A" Flat, because Chopin happens to be one of my favorite composers.
We are having stormy weather here today and my brother and Mr. Franklin K. Lane Jr., with some of the people from the Department of Commerce, flew off this morning to Pittsburgh to try a new form of landing. I was very sorry not to be able to go with them, but engagements here prevented me. If the weather in Pittsburgh is as gloomy as it is here, they may prove the value of this new type of landing, but I fear they will not have much opportunity to see for themselves just what is going on.
Every new thing which makes aviation safer is interesting to me. I can remember when we heralded every change in railroad operation or in ship transportation with the same kind of excitement with which we now watch changes in airships. The first of these methods of travel is now so safe that when they do have an accident we hardly notice it because it is so rare.
Governor Earle, of Pennsylvania, seems to be putting a good of attention on making travel by automobile safer. His theory is that speed is largely responsible. I imagine this is so, though serious accidents can also occur for other reasons.
I have received a number of calendars from the Pine Mountain Settlement School. This school in Harlan County, Kentucky, is devoted to the education of mountain children. I am delighted with the linoleum cuts which have been used in making up this calendar. Mr. John A. Spelman III made them and he has chosen to portray scenes from the mountain environment and has done it delightfully. The students set up the pages and printed them.
Mrs. Scheider and I are going away for the weekend, so we have been trying to clean up our respective desks. My husband said to me rather severely this morning that he thought I must manage time very badly, because he had heard me moving around after 1:00 a.m. and one should not have to work as late as that! Shamefacedly I owned to working even later and acknowledged bad management, but I haven't been able to find a better way to manage the social season.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
