
                  
                     Hyde Park, N. Y.HYDE PARK, Sunday—My interest in the school lunch problem took up so much space that I haven't told you what I have been doing in the past few days.
I went to New York City on Thursday and had an interesting talkintalk in the afternoon with a committee of home economics teachers working in the public schools of New York City. They have a summer workshop in which they are discussing school curricula. The home economics teachers feel that every child should have training in this subject in the 7th and 8th grades and one year in high school. They believe this training is valuable to both boys and girls.
It is important in learning how to run their homes and how to live better, and for many will point the way to a foundation for a type of training which will give them opportunities for a variety of jobs.
In the evening I went over to Brooklyn to a forum in the Girls' Commercial High School, where Mr. Agar, vice president of Freedom House, Dr. Clyde EggletonEagleton, of New York University, and Mr. Clarence Streit spoke. It was an interesting evening and some of the questions at the very end were particularly valuable.
Friday evening was spent going to Saybrook, Conn., to visit my friends, Miss Esther Lape and Miss Elizabeth Read. On my way back on the train, I found myself sitting next to a charming young woman who was on her way to visit her brother in camp.
We passed a number of government housing projects and she suddenly said that one of the great needs of young married couples was was for good housing at a cost of from $40 to $45 a month. It seems to me that this could be done by private enterprise when the war is over in greater volume than has ever been done in the past. It is one of the things which will keep up our production of certain basic goods.
Yesterday the rain came down in sheets and I was inclined to feel that the elements were very unkind, for we had planned an outdoor picnic for the grown-ups and children. However, in the evening we had the picnic in the playroom and it turned out to be a very pleasant and informal evening.
On Saturday afternoon I spent an hour at the Hudson Shore Labor School, where they had a two day conference on what trade union women can do in their homes to help the war effort. They covered nutrition and various conservation projects, gas and sugar rationing and price regulation. I think everyone will get a much better conception of the reasons why these things are being asked of cvilianscivilians. This will be a help, for there is a still a certain amount of confusion which should be cleared up.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
