
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—Last Friday night, in Washington, I went to a play written by two young authors, Phoebe and Henry Ephron. It is a farce and, when it opens in New York City, it will be called "Three's A Family." Its purpose is to make you laugh, and judging by the audience last Friday night, it succeeds. In these days we should be grateful to those who bring us such release.
Saturday night, in New York City, I went to see, or hear rather, "Rosalinda." This operetta with charming Johann Strauss waltzes, gives one a very pleasant gay evening. I was happyto have a chance to attend a performance.
Sunday afternoon, after having quite a large family gathering at lunch, I went to a meeting held in Harlem for the benefit of Bethune-Cookman College, and to honor Mrs. Mary McLeod Bethune. Mr. Roland Hayes sang and I enjoyed his part of the program very much.
I barely had time to eat a hurried supper and change before going back up town to the Horace Mann Auditorium for a meeting of the Columbia Graduate Club. After speaking there, I reached home in time to listen to the radio, keep an appointment with a young man who is on his way to England and, finally, make the train for Washington.
I am very glad to receive a little leaflet from the Children's Bureau, which tells of the maternity and infant care which will now be available under the new congressional appropriation for the wives and infants of the men in the armed forces. Any man serving in the fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh grade of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps or Coast Guard, may have his wife taken care of "as long as similar services are not available through medical or hospital facilities of the Army or Navy, or by or through, official stateor local health services."
This new service functions through grants made by the Children's Bureau to the state health departments underplans approved by the Children's Bureau. This will be of great help to many men in the service who, when they were inducted into the service, worried as to how their wives and children were going to receive proper medical care and had comparatively small pay from which to make allotments.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
