
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—Sunday was a very peaceful day for us. The President and I were overjoyed to greet at luncheon, Mr. John G. Winant, our Ambassador to Great Britain, who has come home for a short time. One is ordinarily supposed to return home for a holiday, and it would certainly seem a necessary thing to do when one works as hard as this particular Ambassador does.
Instead of resting, I think Mr. Winant is planning to use much of his time over here to work on things he just can't find time to work on in Great Britain. I only hope he will have a few days of peace and quiet with his family in his own State of New Hampshire.
In the late afternoon, I managed to corral my husband to look at a few Christmas presents and then a few friends came to supper. We saw the movie called, "Random Harvest," which is based on James Hilton's book. It is charmingly done and everybody seemed to enjoy it.
This morning I am carrying on my usual type of day, beginning with an interview with a lady who has not been able to find her particlar niche for useful work, though she has been in Washington for some time. Next, at 11:00 o'clock, Miss Margaret Hickey, Chairman of the Women's Advisory Committee of the War Manpower Commission, came to my press conference to tell the ladies of the press about the progress of the work of her committee.
A few minutes after 12:00 o'clock, Miss Gertrude Warren, of the Department of Agriculture, brought over some of her executives in charge of 4-H Club work, to try to find out whether anything I had observed in Great Britain could be of use to them. She left some information on the achievements of the 4-H Clubs throughout the country, which I want to pass along because I consider them quite astounding for this age group in the rural areas of our country.
In the general field of good citizenship, these youngsters bought War Bonds and Stamps to the value of $6,000,000 and were instrumental in selling to others$2,600,000others $2,600,000 worth. They have become sufficiently conscious of the examinations, and 7,000,000 meals were prepared by them in keeping with the nutritional needs of the family.
In the field of production, they produced 11,000,000 pounds of soy beans, peanuts and other legumes. Their gardens produced 3,000,000 bushels of vegetablesandvegetables and they were responsible for the care of 6,500,000 chickens. There are more things I could tell you, but this will give you an idea that the 4-H Clubs are developing good citizens.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
