
                  
                     Hyde parkHYDE PARK, Sunday—My days have been decidedly peaceful here, though full of activity from the point of view of doing things with the children, swimming and playing games. There is a real touch of autumn in the air. Around the pond, the purple weed has turned to a faint reddish tinge. Here and there some scarlet leaves are showing on the swamp maples.
Though I imagine we shall have some warm weather before autumn really sets in, I still look at every meal out of doors as an added blessing before the cold weather makes it impossible.
Some of us attended the Roosevelt Home Club dance at the Town Hall in the village last night. We all took part in a very active Virginia reel, and I envied my young niece, Amy Roosevelt's ease and grace. Even the most active prancing didn't seem to make her puff.
The other night I read a play by Seldon Rodman called "The Revolutionists." It deals with the always fascinating story of Toussaint L'Ouverture and HenryHenri Christophe. The President has always spoken of this episode in history and the extraordinary citadel Toussaint L'Ouverture built in Haiti, the ruins of which still exist. This play is good reading and I shall be interested to see it acted. These two men were great and more people should know their story.
Yesterday, a young Syrian, Mr. Salom Rizk, who has been speaking under the auspices of a magazine to various groups of young people in schools and colleges throughout the country, came to see me. I can well understand that his life story would make his lectures interesting.
He was born in the mountains of Syria and, as a young man, came to a Middle Western city in the United States. He was an American citizen, but had to learn the meaning of America and suffered much before he became a citizen of the United States.
The story of the Marines in the Solomon Islands, which is in all our papers this morning, adds another page to their glorious record. As Americans, we rejoice in all their glorious records, and as Americans we rejoice in all they have done and in the cooperation they have received from all the other branches of the services. We grieve at the losses which were sustained and which will bring sorrow to many homes in our nation, and pray we may all do our utmost to bring the war to a victorious end.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
