
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—Yesterday noon I spoke on a broadcast which is being inaugurated by the Friends of Children Incorporated. Once a week they will broadcast an American play for children. It will go by shortwave not only to British children, but to other children throughout the world.
Up to this time, the Friends of Children Inc., have been sending boxes of clothes to children in England, but they felt that there was need for a message which would interest the children themselves and tie them closer to children in this country. I hope that this program will give a great deal of pleasure to the children overseas.
In the afternoon we went to the Press Photographers' Association 6th annual photo exhibit. I can only say I wish I could spend more time looking at these photographs. They have a very good and amusing one of the President in a perplexed and reflective state of mind. Many other notables look down upon you from the walls. The color photographs are very beautiful, and the sports photographs, taken with a new type of camera which takes people in action, are some of the most extraordinary I have ever seen.
We gathered up our bags and I took a train to Philadelphia at 4:00 o'clock and drove to Swarthmore. I had dinner at the college and spoke afterwards under the auspices of the Swarthmore Student Union. My only previous tie with Swarthmore was through Miss Josephine  Truslow AdamsTruslow-Adams of their art department. I happen to have one of her paintings, which I much enjoy.
President Nason and three students drove me to the airport, where my friend, Miss Mayris Chaney, met me. We boarded the plane at 11:25 for Washington, on which we found Mrs. David Levy and Mr. Morris Troper of the Joint Distribution Committee, who were coming down here in the interest of the work of that committee.
And now to finish Dame Crowdy's letter:
"That reminds me that last week I was in Bristol and the Lord Mayor asked me if I had ever met you or the President. When I said: `'Yes' he said: 'If you ever write to Mrs. Roosevelt, will you tell her that the thing which has cheered the children of Bristol is that not only the grown-ups, but the children of the four Bristols of America are thinking about them. He has evidently had much kindness from your Bristols.
"I helped last month to arrange a tour for Mr. Pyle of the Scripps-Howard chain of newspapers. I was very anxious that he should have a chance really to talk to people, and not just be put off with lunches and dinners. I think he saw exactly the kind of thing he wanted. He is a human and sympathetic person and realized that many of us, while praying for victory are adding, `'And make us worthy of it."''"
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
