
                  
                     Eastport, Me.EASPORT, Maine, Monday —I was told an amusing story about the Quoddy project on Saturday, which had its origin, as you know, in a suggestion to harness the tides for power. The current saying among the boys is that the President started to make electrical power, but ended up by creating man power.
The sardine factories in Eastport and Lubec, Maine, are running every day in the week, for this year the fish are kind and apparently making up for their absence in the last five years. In Eastport, however, a man stopped me as I was returning to my boat on Saturday morning, to tell me they are facing a real problem.
They provide coal for this section, even for many little islands off shoreoffshore. The coal is bought and paid for, but it is in Norfolk, Va., and they have not been able to obtain a ship for transportation.
Here is one place where they recognize emergency restrictions and difficulties. They are seriously concerned as the days slip by, not only about their industries, but about the actual suffering that may come to individuals a little later on.
I wonder if this may have some effect on the way people look on power development up here. I understand that some people feel there is all the power necessary already developed in Maine. They may be right, but if people are cold and industries can notcannot run, it is going to be a little hard to prevent them from looking for substitutes to replace the things they would use under ordinary conditions.
We lunched yesterday with my cousin, Mrs. Frederick B. Adams. Mr. Guy Gannett, of Portland, Me., and Mrs. Elisabeth May Craig came over on Saturday to lunch with us. Mrs. Craig stayed over until this morning and we dropped her in Eastport for her return trip to Washington.
We are off today to buy a number of things which we need for our house, which has never before held so many people as it will during the five weeks of the summer institute here, under the auspices of the International Student Service.
I have just been sent a very charming love story which will appear in Reader's Digest on June 25th. This is a new departure for the Digest, but they are doing it at just the right age. They are now in their twentieth year and, after all, romance should not wait beyond that time for recognition.
I know you will enjoy "Do You Remember?",," which appeared orignally in "Good Housekeeping Magazine",," and which is written unremarkableis written by Earl Reed Silvers. I wish that all associate professors of English wrote with such tenderness and humor. They might be a greater inspiration to their students than they sometimes are.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
