
                  
                     NEW YORK, Friday—Having gone to The Tuition Plan luncheon yesterday without knowledge as to what the organization represented, I found that the plan meant an easier way to pay month by month for the education of our children. The Tuition Plan accumulates funds and pays the schools and colleges when they desire payment, and charges a small extra percentage on monthly payments.
The speeches were extremely interesting, but as so often happens, they left me with an unsatisfied feeling. I would like to sit down and discuss many of the points raised at greater length afterwards, and bring up the many subjects which seem to me to bear upon the hopes and plans all of us have for the future.
I reached home in time to spend an hour with a very old friend of mine whom I had not seen for a long time. Later, other friends came in for tea and dinner, and finally we went in the evening to see "The Late George Apley." I think Max Gordon in presenting this play has done a service to those of us who remember the past and enjoy watching the pageant of the years unroll. He may have done an even greater service to the youth of today in giving them an insight into their grandparents!
Of course, there are few places in the United States that can quite equal Boston as the perfect setting for humorous situations, and the scene between George Apley of Boston and Julian Dole of Kansas City and Worcester, is something priceless.
The Thanksgiving dinner of that day has, I hope, gone into the limbo of the past forever. We have certainly learned not to stuff ourselves to the extent that our grandparents did. But whether we have learned that even in our families the object of reunions is to have a good time, is something I'm not quite so sure about. Certainly in the case of our large family there is never any dearth of conversation! I am not sure that it is always pleasant, but at least it is always stimulating, and that is better than the stuffed silence of the Apley family.

                  Mrs. William L. Kell of Darlington, Indiana, has written me about a plan of hers which she thinks might bring in a few extra dollars for any good cause. She suggests that at any party one is planning to have, one could invite one's guests to come to a "sacrificial" party where they would put into an envelope the amount of money that might otherwise have been spent on refreshments for those present, and send it to the Red Cross. This is a good idea if those present have enough ability to create a party spirit merely by being together! It will take some of those qualities that I was just thinking about in connection with the family Thanksgiving gathering. There will have to be good talk and real interest in the people present, or the food will be sadly missed!
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
