
                  WASHINGTON
                     —Washington is treating us very nicely and though the sun is out today there is a breeze and we are not really uncomfortable. I caught up on all my household duties this morning. Read the Democratic Platform to which I had listened last night over the radio, but somehow my mind is so constituted that I have to read things before I really understand them. Then did some long hand letters in answer to those which sit in such a pathetic pile on my desk and get carried around in my brief case and still never actually get written.
Washington is still full of people but the people you would like to see because of things you want to discuss or find out, have either gone to the far parts of the country to investigate their own projects or are at the Philadelphia Convention! One gentleman came to lunch to talk over a project we are both interested in, and at three o'clock I went to Mr. Phillips' house to see an exhibition of W.P.A.WPA pictures which will later be shown in New York City. Many of these artists are young and W.P.A.WPA is making it possible for them to develop their talent in their own locality and I think both the paintings and etchings give you a sense of gaitygaiety and satisfaction. Mr. Cahill, the head of the Federal Arts Project insists that artists want little materially from life. All they need is mere subsistence and an opportunity to create in order to be happy.
Afterwards I went to say goodbye to Mrs. Adolph Miller who is off on Sunday for the West Coast and perhaps across the Pacific Ocean.
At four I received quite a group of the National Sojourners who are holding their Convention here. Even the possibility of summer heat does not deter people from coming to Washington to hold their conventions and if they are fortunate as they have been this year, there is no more interesting and satisfactory place for a convention as every minute can be filled when one does not actually have to sit at meetings.
I am trying to decide what I shall take with me to Hyde Park and what I shall leave here and wishing that one could keep all of one's belongings in one place and never move them backwards and forwards, for the thing you want is always somewhere else!
