
                  
                     WASHINGTON, D. C., Tuesday—Yesterday I attended the lunch given by Mrs. Marshall Field, Mr. John Golden, and Mr. Charles Auchincloss for the men and women in the theatre box-offices. They have to go to the trouble to see that good seats are allotted to the young military men, both from our own forces and from those of our allies, who are now given half-price seats at the various theatres. Afterwards I sold the fifty thousandth ticket to a young American officer from Georgia.
This Officers Service Committee has very pleasant rooms in the Commodore Hotel, and is most anxious that all officers coming into New York City who are strangers, should avail themselves of the services which they have to offer.
In the evening, I took some Navy boys to see Irving Berlin's show, "This Is The Army." It certainly was a wonderful show. There was so much spirit and life to it. From the first notes played by the orchestra, to the very last bar, we enjoyed the music. The songs and lines were delightful, and I have never seen such acrobatics, or better dancing. Perhaps because I can remember the last war, the thing which really stirred me most was the singing by Irving Berlin and some of his contemporaries of, "Oh, How I Hate To Get Up In The Morning."
We made the night train, and had the good fortune to find Washington fairly cool this morning.
I was told today of an effort which is being made by the Treasury Department to integrate the interests and the work of women to boost the sale of War Bonds and Stamps. It is quite evident that men alone cannot make the maximum contribution. They may allot part of their pay, but if the woman in the home does not learn to budget, does not see to it that she feeds her family well in spite of the economizing she must do, that family will not be making the greatest possible contribution from their income.
In some cases, it is going to mean doing without things, but these items must not be essential to the family health. In other cases it is going to mean training ourselves to remember that everything which we do has a bearing on the winning of the war. The Treasury Department very wisely realizes this, and is going to see that we do not forget it.
An entertaining and very instructive little book was sent to me the other day. It is called, "Babies Are Fun," written by Jean Little john AsbergJean Littlejohn Aaberg. If you are about to have a new-comernewcomer in your family, I think you will find it both amusing and helpful, for it is written with charm and common sense.
Copyright, 1942, by United Feature Syndicate

