
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Thursday—We spent yesterday in New York City. I was busy a good part of the day with personal things, but at 4:00 o'clock I went to the YWCA at the invitation of Mrs. John Finley, to receive some charming Chinese scrolls from the students of China. The YWCA has done a great deal of work in foreign countries for many years but it is particularly proud of its achievements in China, and rightly so. At the simple ceremony yesterday afternoon, there were many fine looking young Chinese people who are studying here.
Heavy responsibilities will fall upon them in developing the future of their country. Many of them are already doing work that would seem almost impossible of accomplishment under the present situation in China, but they are going ahead under Madame Chiang Kai-shek's leadership, and this gives one courage to look forward to even greater achievements in the future.
China and India will probably work together very closely. The affiliation between the students of the two countries will probably be very significant in the future.
I must not forget to tell you that my children and I, who were lunching together yesterday, quite unexpectly met Mr. Louis Bromfield. We invited him to join us, and that led to much exciting and vehement talk among Franklin, Jr., Ethel, Mr. Bromfield and myself.
It is a delightful combination to be a farmer and a writer. The kind of farm Mr. Bromfield runs must be an exciting adventure. Farming on a scale large enough to have the workers on the place your partners and really make it a business, is one of the things, which, if I were young, would appeal to me.
On one thing at least, Mr. Bromfield and I did agree, in spite of many arguments. We decided that to work on something you enjoyed, was an essential part of life, that the only real security which anybody has in this world is his own earning capacity.
Last evening we went to see Sir James Barrie's play: "A Kiss For Cinderella." It has all the tender imaginative charm one associates with much of his writing, but LouiseLuise Rainer's acting really makes the perfection of the play. She is so appealing that one must love Cinderella, and, of course, Mr. Cecil Humphreys and Mr. Ralph Forbes and the rest of the cast make of the entire evening a delight and a pleasant memory.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE.)
