
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Friday—Early this morning I went up to the hospital and lost my third wisdom tooth. I shall be glad when all four are finally removed, though I shall probably feel rather ashamed, since one of my husband's aides said rather pointedly the other morning, when I said I was to have a wisdom tooth removed: "Did you say wisdom?"
At 3:00 o'clock, a very remarkable Argentinian woman, Miss Maria Rosa Oliver, came to see me. She has been working with the Coordinator's Office and I enjoyed my visit with her very much. It was her courageous spirit which impressed me most. She did not seem to realize with what gallantry she was doing her work, and such worth whileworthwhile work, in spite of the fact that she cannot go about by herself, because of an injury which makes walking alone impossible.
After that Ipaid two visits and had to dress very hurriedly to reach Mrs. William H. Good's home in Brooklyn, in time for dinner with her before attending the Student Nurses' Forum at the Kings County Hospital.
They told me that 39 schools of nursing were represented. There must have been 600 student nursesin the auditorium. They have recruited a chorus from the various Brooklyn nurses training schools, which a very able leader has welded together so that they have been able to sing during the drive for nurse recruits in high schools and department stores.
They sang delightfully and I could well understand their great success, which has attracted a great deal of attention to the nursing profession.
There is such a shortage of nurses that the Red Cross is constantly asking for more really trained and experienced nurses to go abroad. We must also have at least a few left at home to do the directing of the less experienced nurses and of the nurses' aides. We must not neglect telling our girls of the possibilities of this service, which, perhaps, will bring them more satisfaction than any other if they are anxiously waiting for someone to come back from the wars, because it is so absorbing and so exacting.
In addition, this training will serve them well in their own homes and will be of value to any community in which they may live in the future.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
