
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—Today, at noon, Mrs. Alma Kitchell and Mrs. Henry MorhenthauMorgenthau, Jr., together with mothers of men in the armed forces, were on the air, popularizing a slogan which all women will be glad to remember —"A stamp a dayforday for the son who is away." Many a woman may not have a son, but she may have a husband, or a brother, or a sweetheart, or just a boy in whom she is interested. Every stamp she buys, every war bond, is a help to the victory which he is fighting for, and will hasten it, which means lives saved.
No woman today can afford not to be war stamps and war bond minded. Perhaps the book: "There Were Giants In The Land," published at the suggestion of the War Savings Staff of the Treasury, may serve to stimulate interest and keep us all constantly busy on one of our jobs, which is to save in order that we may buy bondsandbonds and stamps.
Some people think of this purely as a contribution to the Governmentgovernment and the war—in reality it is an investment which bears interest and which ten years from now will help us to obtain the very things which we may now go without. Of course, we may sell sooner if we wish. In buying now, we shall be helping our country in the future, as well as helping our boys in the present.
I have a letter from Ohio today, which brings up a point which I think worth passing on. My correspondent speaks for the defense workers who are now working at night and have to sleep in the daytime. Many of them live in crowded areas, and they find that radios turned on full in nearby apartments tend to make it difficult to sleep.
My correspondent's suggestion is that, every now and then over the air, we should be reminded to keep our radios turned low for our own enjoyment, and that by doing so, we shall make it possible for better work to go forward in the factories.
Last night, the Dutch and USSR delegates to the International Student Service Assembly here, dined with me. We had an interesting time, though I find that being unable to talk directly to a person is a great drawback. I never before had realized what a help it would be if all of us learned in addition to our own language, one universal tonguetongue. I think I shall work more enthusiastically in the future for a common language as one of the contributions to a peaceful world.
There is something very charming to me about the young Russian woman, Junior Lieutenant Liudmila Pavlichenko. She has suffered, as have all these young people, and is suffering something which is universal and binds all the world together regardless of language.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
