
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday—Yesterday afternoon I went to see the first Government Workers' Club, which has been established in Mrs. Evelyn Walsh McLean's garage. It is really extraordinary how they have adoptedadapted and decoratedthisdecorated this room. It is an excellent place for dancing.
Yesterday they had a shower for the kitchen, and I think they will probably have everything they need to serve refreshments in the future. They hope to be able to do over the second floor into a reading and game room, with another room set aside as a classroom.
A great many of our government workers, it appears, would like to study Spanish and I am delighted to find this trend. It shows that we are beginning to realize that our good neighbor policy has to be carried on by all of us, not just by our Government.
On leaving the club, I went to the Pan-AmericanPan American Building to see an exhibition of paintings done in Mexico by Mr. Roy MacNicol. They were perfectly charming, and I was particularly interested in the Indian types. Some showed the hardships of the life they and their forefathers had lived. Others had a gentleness and sweetness which seemed to draw you to them through the canvas. The color in every picture was fascinating and I feel sure that this is the predominant note in Mexico which attracts everyone in this country who goes there.
I walked home to find that it was rapidly getting colder. When I opened my windows last night, I looked out at the solitary sentries, who are always the last human beings I see at night, and the first I see in the morning, and wished I could do something to keep them warm. As it was, I was shivering in my bed before morning, and I wondered again how those poor boys had come through their solitary posts. Even walking up and down doesn't keep one very warm. Long ago I was told that if one took deep breaths it made a great deal of difference, but I find that a rather exhausting occupation.
We have just held the Fourth of March church service, and it was well attended. Everybody present was moved, I think, by some personal as well as national feeling. One no longer only prays in general, for the prayers almost always have some personal application.
You remember, doubtless, that the Armenians are taught only to pray for their own after they have prayed in general terms. Perhaps we are all learning to do that, for we never know when or where our own are involved these days. The news from the Pacific today seems to be very good, and so most of us have gratitude in our hearts also.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
