
                  
                     Hyde Park, N. Y.HYDE PARK, Monday—Eleanor, young Curtis, and I drove home from the wedding on Saturday evening and arrived rather late, at least for them. When I telephoned over yesterday morning, Curtis asked to speak to me and told me his neck still felt very queer. I prophesied that it was the result of sleeping curled up in the car and, on inquiring today, found that the ill effects had pretty well worn off.
I was glad to find Mrs. Scheider really much better on Sunday morning, but the doctor is still keeping her in bed and she said that he gave her no encouragement this morning. His sole remark was to say rather haughtily that it was a strange thing that all his patients kept repeating, "When may I go home?" We are really most anxious to have her home, so I hope he will relent before long.
Word came last evening that the President was marooned in Buzzards Bay in the fog. I never likeliked fog and I knew that for Elliott and Ruth it would really be serious if they were unable to catch their train last night, so I was much relieved when someone kindly telephoned me that they had seen them in the Pennsylvania Station.
Instead of arriving at 8:00 or 9:00 this morning, the President, Anna and John reached the big house about ten-thirty. Franklin, Jr., and Ethel were still eating a leisurely breakfast on the beatboat.
They explained to me that Elliott and Ruth had been put ashore yesterday morning and had taken a train home from Providence. This was an easy adjustment, and I was glad that they had not spent the day wondering whether they would make their train for Texas or not. The one thing Elliott really worried about was his crops! He kept telling me that he had left home in the middle of the harvest, and any farmer knows that's a bad time to leave home, even for a brother's wedding.
My mother-in-law greets these large family influxes with great joy, but if I were in her place there are some things that I should find rather trying. For instance, having to dig out of everybody who will be home for lunch and who has invited any outside guests. I finally wrote a list out for her before leaving for the hospital to see Mrs. Scheider this morning, but I had a feeling that before I got back it might have changed several times. Mr. and Mrs. Chester Arthur and Mr. and Mrs. Will Hays are coming to lunch, and someone remarked that we were going in for Presidential names!
I had a glimpse of Mrs. Morgenthau this morning at the hospital when she brought in the most lovely box of sweet peas, pansies and roses for Mrs. Scheider. We have all enjoyed their fragrance.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
