
                  NEW YORK, Monday
                     —I left the country this morning, driving my own car, at 6 a.m. and at that hour there is little traffic on the road. I got to my apartment in plenty of time to change and be at the Herald Tribune Conference at the Waldorf Hotel at 9:25. Mrs. Reid opened the Cconference in her usual charming manner. She was followed by the Mayor who greeted the delegates and gave them plenty of food for thought in his speech. In any case a Cconference which has as its subject "The Re-discovery of America" and at its first session takes up "A generation finding itself" and actually lets young people talk on their own problems is going to be an interesting Cconference. I particularly enjoyed Dr. Stringfellow Barr's talk on education.
My day yesterday was spent very largely in trying to go through the accumulated mail in Hyde Park and that led me to the perusal of one or two letters which had gone sometime unnoticed—one of these came to me from St. Petersburg, Fla. With her letter Mrs. Edna Garland Hall, sent me a little book entitled "My Body".Body."
Unlike many authors who come my way, she did not ask for an endorsement of her work in her own interest, but suggested instead that if I were interested perhaps I would think the book worthy of being presented to the Parent Teachers Association. I do not feel that I can judge for any one but myself about books and so, long ago, I gave up doing anything more than telling people in general when I read something which I think worthy of Mmention. I like this little book and I think I would like the woman who wrote it if we happened to sit down together over a cup of tea by the fire in my living room!
And as long as we are talking about reading matter for young people I should like to mention that I enjoyed the magazine "Junior Scholastic" which was sent to me. This is now being published for the elementary grades in exactly the same way that "Scholastic" has been published for many years for the older grades.
I was interested in this publication because it touches on the subjects which I think strike the imagination of all young people today. The discoveries and inventions that have come to us in the past few years are so stupendous that I think it is well for us to review what has gone before and then to realize what extraordinary things we have had to feed our imagination in the last fifty years.
