
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—Yesterday's sale for the Scottish Clan Evacuation Plan was unique. A real piper piped me in and out and looked very gallant in his piper's costume. A fresh faced woman sat spinning in the window and sang a song just as she had for Queen Elizabeth. There were some delightful plaid ties on sale, two of which I brought home to the President.
The picture of the home in Scotland where the little children are now being cared for by this group warms the heart. After all, little children should be saved from as much suffering as possible, for they are not to blame for what may come about in the world as a result of their elder'selders' actions.
After a very pleasant party last night, which was given by some young friends, we drove around the Basin and along the river to get a glimpse of the cherry blossoms. I know nothing lovelier than the reflection of the light in the river. The quiet and peace seems to take one out of this world of turmoil for a few minutes at least.
The daffodils are blooming gaily in the little garden outside of the Executive Offices. They stand up so gracefully to changes in the temperature and sharp spring winds that they must give courage to those who work in these busy offices day in and day out.
I listened to a news commentator this morning who gave such a gloomy picture of the future and of the leaders in every field in this country, that I wonder whether the effect would not be to discourage people.
Just to give the gentleman a ray of hope as to the good intentions of some people, I would like to draw his attention to an item in the newspaper wires on April 7th:"  "The Executive Board (of the United Autombile Workers) proposed today a legal unit of $25,000a$25,000 a year onfamilyon family and individual incomes for the war's duration, in return for which union workers would accept non-negotiable Defense Bonds in lieu of all overtime pay for more than forty hours a week."
The gentleman said that there was no unselfishness left in any of us. I am not going to contend that this suggestion is entirely unselfish, but at least it is a constructive suggestion showing that someone is doing some thinking. It gives me hope that there may be others who are not as totally devoid of altruism as this morning's news commentator seemed to feel.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
