
                  
                     Arthurdale, W. Vir.ARTHURDALE, W. Va., Sunday—We spent Friday morning and a good part of the afternoon amusing ourselves with an archery set and jumping in and out of the pool to keep cool. I had gone down to the hospital early in the morning and did not return again until rather late in the afternoon, so that I received my first real burn in the sun and did not realize how warm it was until I dressed to return to Poughkeepsie.
As the years go on, we become more sensible about summer clothing. I can remember, as a little girl, trying to roll down my warm black stocking and being sternly told to pull them up again, for ladies did not show their legs uncovered. In some ways, common sense does govern us more today than it did in the gayGay Nineties.
Five of us sat around and listened to the President's speech Friday night. I felt that the realization of the difference between our situation in 1933 and our situation today was very helpful, also the acceptance of the fact that we have all made mistakes during the past year. We cannot expect not to make mistakes and I think it is good for our souls to make public confession of them now and then.
I have received a request to answer a question in my column. It comes from a woman who is deeply concerned, as all women should be, about the world situation. The fact that we continue to talk and to act as though the only ultimate solution for differences of opinion is to resort to force, and therefore war, troubles her greatly. Her question is: "If you were getting married in 1938 instead of when you did, would you, at this stage of affairs, want to have your family of children over again?"
The answer is "yes",," for one cannot live by fear either for oneself or future generations. One can only hope that ensuing generations will have far more intelligence than we have had and that they will find an answer to questions which we have not been able to solve.
I flew to Arthurdale today, but must tell you about it tomorrow.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
