
                  
                     HartfordHARTFORD, Conn., Tuesday—After my press conference yesterday morning, I spent an hour with the small conference group which gathered in Washington over the weekend under the auspices of the United States Students' Assembly Committee. They have learned a great deal from the various speakers to whom they have listened. All of them felt that the conference had been fruitful and would help them in organizing similar ones in their own localities.
Miss Thompson and I had a little difficulty deciding how we were going to reach New Haven in time to make our connections for the evening meeting at Hartford. We took a train which was supposed to make a good connection at New Haven, but we were late and missed it, so the Governor of Connecticut rescued us and had the State Police bring us to Hartford. This was very fortunate, because we only had ten minutes to spare before the Governor went on the air and I followed.
The meeting, under the auspices of the Women's Division of the Hartford War Council, preceded a house to househouse-to-house canvas which begins today in an effort to enlist the workers needed for industry in this area. If the attendance at the meeting is any guagegauge of the interest which people take, they should have no difficulty in getting everyone to work.
After the meeting last night, girls who represented all different types of work being done in this area, came by. They had acted as ushers and it was interesting to see Girl Scouts, Red Cross workers of every kind, WAACS, WAVES, workers from the factories and uniformed drivers for these same factories and many others file past.
This area already has a housing and transportation problem. It is very important that they recruit new labor from the neighborhood, since importing people who have to find housing space would be almost impossible and might even lead to serious health conditions from overcrowding.
After the meeting, we went back to spend the night with my cousins, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Alsop. They have closed a large part of the house, because Mrs. Alsop says she could not bear it with so much of the family gone.
Their three sons are in the services and their daughter is married. They have a charming Russian couple living in the house, and the man not only does his job all day, but works four nights a week for six hours in an aircraft factory.
We were up early this morning and are now, at 8:45, about to drive to the University of Connecticut. I am very anxious to see the kind of work which is done here in preparation for work on farms during the summer.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
