
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—I received a letter in my mail yesterday, signed with an assumed name. The lady is much annoyed with the President because she has been told that he has been holding a bill on his desk, which happens to affect a particular situation in her own family. She has been told this over a long period, and feels that an injustice is being done because the President has not acted.
I have no idea what the particular provisions of this bill are, nor what the reasons are which have delayed the final signing which would make ifit effective, but I have learned from long experience that there are always reasons. No matter how much I may be interested in some particular case, there are invariably a great many cases which make further consideration necessary for one reason or another.
So, "Judy `Grady",," whoever you may be, I' llI'll mention the case you are interested in to the President, but I doubt if it is "obstinacy" on his part which is holding up the final decision. I hope your "womanly spleen" won't lead you into a course of action which will defeat the things you really care about. You happen to be annoyed over a serious situation which must, however, in the long run be considered from the point of view of "the many" rather than from the point of view of "the one."
I wonder if my readers know of the new radio program which begins on Sunday, September 21st, on the NBC Red Network, from 12:30 to 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Saving Time. This broadcast is announced by Dr. John W. Studebaker, U. S. Commissioner of Education, under whose auspices it has been arranged. There are to be six educational radio programs, under the title of :"Freedom's People." These are sponsored by a special committee with which the U. S. Office of Education cooperates. Dr. Studebaker says:
"Never more than now is national unity an absolute essential. The double purpose of 'Freedom's People' is to show America the ability and aspirations of its Negro population, and to spur Negroes, themselves, to greater service by examples of their work."
The first broadcast will show what Negroes have done in American music, and at intervals of about a month, the five other programs will follow.
I hope that many people will listen to these broadcasts, for the more we know about each other and about our contributions to the good things in our country, the less we shall be liable to fall a victim to that most pernicious thing called:"racial and religious prejudice."
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
