
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Tuesday—Yesterday I took my first long auto drive of the summer alone. It was my cousin, Mrs. Henry Parrish's birthday, so I decided to go and lunch with her at Llewellyn Park, Orange, N. J. It was a clear and sunny day when I left here, but it grew colder and cloudier as time went on. However, the drive along the Storm King Highway was very beautiful and I enjoyed the view of the Hudson River all the way. I was tempted to stop to buy fruit from stalls between Highland and Newburgh, for this side of the river seems to to be a part of the country where fruit grows in abundance. It seemed foolish to carry it around with me all day, however, so I made no purchases.
One car with an Illinois license passed me twice and finally I stopped at a gas station and the car turned around and came back to park beside me. A pretty young woman leaned out eagerly and said: "You are Mrs. Roosevelt, aren't you? We couldn't go on without asking for a chance to shake hands with you." Two young couples tumbled out and one of the young men took a photograph through my windshield, which I think will probably not be very good. We shook hands and much to my amusement one of them murmured: "You look much nicer than your pictures." I am beginning to think that having people expect so little of your looks is rather a good idea, because their surprise at least is a pleasant one.
This little conversation seemed to satisfy them, for I saw them no more along the road. No one else recognized me or paid any attention to me, even when I had to stop in Montclair to ask the best way to LLewellynLlewellyn Park.
I spent three hours with my cousin and found a shorter way to return, so I reached home a little after four-thirty.
Today I caught up on mail. After an early lunch, I am motoring down to New York City at Mr. Charles Taussig's invitation to dine with Father Mooge of the Catholic Charities to discuss some of the youth problems. Incidentally, I hope to fit in a short lesson on speaking, so as to be able to practice more effectively during the summer.
Some one sent me a wonderful clip to wear on my nose while swimming, which prevents any water from getting into it and through the ear passages. I find, however, it is going to require some little time before I can breathbreathe with ease through my mouth alone.
One of the NYA projects in Richmond, Va., sent me a linen luncheon set yesterday, which is really charmingly woven. I can not help but be interested and pleased when I see things so well done, for it must mean that many young people will be able to make useful and really pretty things for their own homes. I have always liked the foreign custom of having a girl start young to make things for a future home and putting them away in a hope chest. Even if a girl doesn't get married, sometime or other, she is likely to want a home of her own and it is nice to be making things all through your childhood and girlhood with this future in mind.
(Distributed, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
