
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Tuesday—I went to a pleasant dinner last night with my friends, Mr. and Mrs. Myron Taylor and met some interesting people. Present were Madame Wellington Koo, Mr. Lattimore, the financial adviser of Generalissimounremarkable. Chiang Kai-shek; Miss Bonney, who has been able to take such remarkable photographs in France since the war, and who told me of the children in the concentration camps.
I cannot bear to think of children behind barbed wire looking out at a free world—only, of course, the world they live in is not free. We can only hope that out of this period of chaos will come again a free world where children will not starve or be confined against their will.
I evidently made a mistake the other day in not explaining that the New York School for Applied Design is an industrial and a commercial art school with an endowment, and not a charitable institution. I have received a letter of protest and hasten to correct a false impression. I did not intend to convey the idea that I was only speaking of charitable institutions, because civic and educational institutions are finding it just as difficult to get contributions for special needs at the present time.
Only yesterday afternoon a group of people gathered here to discuss the whole question of better racial understanding in the world, both now and at the end of the war. In this connection, a number of institutions, doing various kinds of work and needing financial support, came up for discussion.
Bethune-Cookman College, for instance, in Daytona, Florida, finds that it must increase its standards of training if it is to provide acceptable teachers for the South and send out colored workers to other parts of the country. They must have fine training so they can be of real help to their own people and to the cause of better understanding between this minority group and other groups in our own country.
The running expenses will be higher and an endowment fund must be raised so we hope to acquire new friends, because we feel that this institution is training people who will help us prevent some of the things with which organizations now have to cope. There is the Young Men's Vocational Foundation, for instance, and the WiltwyckeWiltwyck School, here wherecolored and white children who come into Children's Court may find intelligent training which will keep them out of a state reform school.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
