
                  POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y.
                     —Yesterday dawned gray and rainy and I know no place much gloomier in the rain than Niagara Falls and Buffalo! Several people were anxious for a glimpse of the Falls, but of course, our route did not take us near enough to see anything beyond a mist rising in the distance. Unfortunately this being a political trip and not a sight-seeingsightseeing trip, we couldn't very well ask them at the last minute to change the line they had fixed on for their parade.
I marvel at the patience and fortitude of the people who come out in the rain to get a glimpse of the President or the candidate for the Presidency. However, they do come out and even stand without unbrellas. It didn't rain very hard, either at the dedication of the stadium in Niagara, or driving across the Grand Island bridges. In Buffalo it was just gray and uninspiring weather. The crowd in the square seemed interested in the new federal building and it really is a very lovely building.
In Rochester it began to rain in real earnest and I had a chance to test out my theory that my hat would withstand any amount of water, and that my Val-Kill homespun coat would keep me dry almost as well as a raincoat. For here we drove in an open car in the rain and stood out on a platform with the rain coming down so hard that little rivers ran off the brim of my hat. In spite of all this, the crowd was so dense that my husband had to ask them to move back as he left for fear some one would be hurt.
It was interesting to see at almost every station stop a banner saying something about the young Democrats. It really gives one quite a thrill to feel that young people are taking such an active interest in politics.
Arriving in Albany was just like dropping back to the old governorship days. The car was put onto the same siding and when we reached the Executive Mansion with Governor Lehman, Mrs. Lehman met us at the door and behind were all the old familiar faces of the staff that we had known so long. Even the orphans who live back of the Mansion hung out of their windows singing to the President as he drove up.
All the executive staff from the Executive Office came over to see my husband, and many other people whom we do not often have an opportunity now to see, were there to greet us.
We were back on the train at nine o'clock and at Hyde Park by ten-thirty to be welcomed again by a group of faces.
After church this morning we came over to the Cottage hoping to be able to enjoy one last picnic out of doors, but it clouded up and looked so cold and forbidding we had to stay indoors.

