
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—Yesterday at Hyde Park I spent most of the day trying to get the orders given for winter arrangements on the farm and in the house, arranging for the closing of my cottage, and finally finishing as much mail as Miss Thompson and I together could get through.
After dinner a few people from further up the river, in Rhine-beckRhinebeck and that neighborhood, came down to speak to the President, and he went out on the porch to greet them. By 10 o'clock we went to the train, and little Johnny Boettiger, who had taken a nap after his supper, seemed to feel that this was great excitement! His only annoyance was that he had not been allowed to stay up all evening. I was a little afraid that one of our two dogs would run off and not appear when it was time to leave, but both Fala and Ensign were on hand and we all left in good order.
We arrived here this morning, and the members of the Cabinet, Representatives of the Congress and other officials all greeted the President before he left the train. We stopped for a few minutes on the plaza in front of the station while Under Secretary of State Stettinius read a scroll from the government workers assuring the President of their support and continued work for the duration.
Mrs. Wallace and our daughter and I were in the car behind the President, the Vice President and the Vice President elect. We were sorry that there were no loud speakers around the plaza, because we could not hear either Mr. Stettinius or my husband, and we were sure that the crowds round about were also disappointed.
Once at the White House, we stopped with the Vice President and Mrs. Wallace and Senator Truman in the diplomaticDiplomaticreceptionReceptionroomRoom to receive all the people in the White House itself, and those from the executive offices, as well as the guards about the grounds.
Most of us had had our breakfast before we left the train, but the President insisted that he was going to have his after he got here. I found him in his study at 10 A. M.a.m. still enjoying his tray, and we had a little chat with various other people.
At 11 I met with the ladies of the press. The President had held his press conference at 10:30, so a few ladies came dashing over breathless from his conference to mine.
I have had one appointment since then, and shortly Mr. and Mrs. Charles Taussig are coming to lunch, when I shall also have the pleasure of seeing again Sir Gordon Lethem, Governor of British Guiana, who came to meet me at the American airfield when we landed there last winter.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
