
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—Friday morning at nine-thirty I went out to Forest Glen, the Army convalescent hospital connected with Walter Reed Hospital, and attended an hour of discussion which was part of a series which they are conducting out there to better prepare citizens for their responsibilities in the future.
In the afternoon I attended the tea given by the Democratic Women's National Council. This is an annual affair, but this year it was given for the girls in the military services, many of whom were present.
On Saturday I attended a luncheon given by the Guidance and Personnel Association of the District of Columbia. It is made up of educators and guidance and personnel workers in government and in the schools. They were particularly interested in the problems of young people who are preparing now for employment in the post-warpostwar world. I think this is a subject of great importance, for it is difficult to forecast the kind of preparation that young people will need in the rather complicated period which will follow the end of the war. We can well afford to spend some time thinking this problem through.
In the afternoon I attended the graduation exercises of another large group of cadet nurses, and I am very proud that so many young women are answering this call to service.
It has been brought to my attention that in New York City, Mayor LaGuardia inaugurated a project known as the Fur Vest Project, which is carried through by the fur industry workers in the city. They asked for donations of used furs, and their workers make these furs into fur lined vests for the Merchant Marine of the United Nations. Of course, they go primarily to those who sail the northern seas. Women all over the country have been sending in used furs, and 75,000 fur lined vests have already been made. Congratulations to an industry which found something useful to do for the war effort, even though one would not generally think of it as a war industry.
Saturday, May 13th, was the day which the American Automobile Association designated as Recognition Day to honor the 300,000 boys and girls who are serving on school safety patrols throughout the nation. These youngsters have done a remarkably good job, and I think this recognition by the public will give them a sense of importance which they truly deserve.
At noon today we had another group of veterans who are studying at George Washington University to lunch, and I enjoy talking to these young men who are facing the aftermath of war and building up new lives.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
