
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—This is a time of great seriousness, for the fall of Tobruk threatens to prolong the war. The United Nations face a challenge and now is the time to prove our unity. Every front belongs to every nation and we who are the youngest and strongest nation now facing the Axis powers, must show our determination to win. This can best be done by proving our unity of feeling and of purpose with every one of our allies. Success may mean more sacrifice, even changes in our way of life, but if we can shorten the war by an hour, everything we will do will be worth whileworthwhile.
This seems to me the opportune time to publish a letter which has just come, and which breathes the spirit which must be ours. It is signed by Margaret Rollo, and comes from Lanarkshire, England:
"Dear Madame,
"I have been given the very great honour of writing you on behalf of the unremarkablethe Women's Rural Institute of this village to thank the women of America through you, for their most kind and thoughtful gift of vegetable seeds. I can assure you that this gift, one of so many, has touched the hearts of all the women of Britain. These seeds have been put into the ground with many kind thoughts of American women and of good wishes for all Americans who are standing shoulder to shoulder with us in this gigantic struggle.
"Not many days ago, one of our lovliest loveliest old cities in the South was badly'blitzed'badly 'blitzed' two nights in succession. Many people lost everything. A member of my family wrote and told me that she had been working in a rest center for 16 hours one day, helping to feed and clothe the homeless. She said: `'The garments we gave out all came from America and you have no idea of the comfort and cheer they gave.'
"I have seen many of those garments for the house of one of my friends in this village is the receiving center for the upper ward of Lanarkshire. What struck me about the garments was their cheery colors and their look of warmth and comfort. Do tell the women of the United States how truly grateful we are for their help and wonderful generosity.
"In this war we are learning what is of real and lasting value, and I pray God we may never forget. You would be amazed at the courage and cheerfulness of people who have undergone the most terrible experiences. We have one dear little woman living in RoberstsonRobertson, who, in March 1941, lost everything except what is most precious—her husband and two small children. She comes down here to help us occasionally and she is like a tonic. Her parting word is always `cheerio'cheerio.' It is a privilege to help people with courage. We are confident of victory however long and hard the struggle may be."
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
