
                  
                     Eastport, Me.EASTPORT, Maine, Thursday—We had another bright and sunny day yesterday, when it was hard to realize that we could be so far north, for the sun is really hot while it lasts.
Our first guests to arrive were Dr. John Studebaker and Mr. Hardy Steeholm. We met them at the ferry and their first introduction to this part of the world was a walk over slippery seaweed and pools of water. However, they approached the island in a spirit of adventure and when they were told that they could not even be taken to the cottage where they were staying until after the morning lecture, they accepted the routine without a murmur. They came and listened to Mr. Roger Baldwin and the discussion that followed with the young people, on the necessity for the spread of Democracy because of the difficulty of living in a world where different ideas and ideals hold sway.
About ten o'clock, my cousin, Mr. Monroe Douglas Robinson, arrived, having driven from Bangor, Me. He joined us out on the lawn. He has taken two days out of the short time before he returns to Peru to come up here with us and I have been interested to watch his ability to make the young people talk. I always remember hearing that during the World War his soldiers were devoted to him. I think the quality which makes the men in your regiment like you is a quality which makes you get on well with youth. You have to be interested in them and they respond in a most satisfactory manner.
The afternoon lecture was given by Dr. Eagleton of New York University. In the evening Dr. Studebaker told us briefly about his work as Commissioner of Education in Washington, and some of his plans for adult education. The young people were very much interested and carried on the discussion until after ten o'clock, when they broke up into little groups.
It is amusing to see how little the generations really change. This house and the house at Hyde Park have housed groups of young people ever since the year that my husband and I were married. My brother came to live with us then and the boys who were his friends are now carrying heavy responsibilities. Some of them are distinguished today in their professions or are serving their country in one way or another.
But just as years ago they could talk far into the night around the fire, so these young people can forget that tomorrow does surely dawn and they even listen to the radio news at midnight with a feeling that the evening has just begun.
I am just leaving to take some of my guests to `Quoddy to see the NYA resident project there.
(Copyright, 1941, by UNITED Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
