
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—Yesterday afternoon I stopped at Mr. Walter Russell's studio to see the bust of the President, on which he had made some changes. I think it is very good indeed. I admire greatly the quality of strength and patience he has put into it, which does not obscure a sense of humor which is always lurking in the background.
Last evening I attended two meetings held at Teacher'sTeachers College, Columbia University. Miss Mabel Carney, who organized them, was with difficulty induced to appear on the stage at each meeting, so that the speakers and audience could express their appreciation of the work she has so long carried on.
I caught the night train and arrived in Washington in time to have a glimpse at breakfast of three young people, who are on their way home from the International Student Service Summer Institute at Asheville, N. C.
This afternoon the President and I shall meet the Queen of the Netherlands at the station. This will be her really formal reception in this country.
I wonder if many cities can boast of the success which Boston seems to have with its Victory Gardens. They are actually planning to have a Victory Garden Show at Horticultural Hall, on September 28th, 29th and 30th, and to give War Stamps and Bonds to the lucky prize winners. They include among their competitors surburban residents who have had large gardens, but also allow entries from the lowly apartment resident who has grown one vegetable in his window box!
Boston evidently took the admonitions of the Department of Agriculture seriously. You will remember that we were told that no time, energy and vital materials were to be used on land which would not, and could not, bring forth a good harvest. So they are going to prove that even though Boston is a great city, it is still sufficiently near the soil to have a garden show of prize products. I think they should be congratulated and I am sure there are many other places which could do the same.
New England has done another outstanding piece of work through the local Civilian Defense ComitteeCommittee, in Bridgeport, Connecticut. The war workers' wives decided that it was important to give "production soldiers" a lunch that would meet requirements of modern nutritionists, and so they started a campaign with the slogan "pack a lunch a man can work on."
They enlisted volunteer nutrition lecturers and gave demonstrations. They featured pictures of the "kitchen soldier" and the luncheons she packed in the Bridgeport Post every week. These women are doing a real war job. More power to them!
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
