
                  
                     NEW YORK, Wednesday—Mrs. Henry Morgenthau Jr., Miss Thompson and I went last night to see one of the most delightful plays in New York—"The Hasty Heart," by John Patrick. There is only one stage setting: the convalescent ward of a British general hospital in the rear of the Assam-Burma front.
The cast is all-male except for "Sister Margaret," who was certainly a lovely Sister, even though one might expect the eyes of wounded men far away from home to look upon any woman with pleasure! There is all the tragedy of life and war in this play, but also all the humor that youth creates and that probably keeps our soldiers going on all the fronts in the world.
I will not tell you the story, but you will find your heart lifted by the sheer goodness and kindness of human beings. That's what saved the dour young Scot, and that after all is the only thing that makes living and struggling in this rather tragic world an exciting adventure.
I don't know whether you ever see the newsletter sent out by "Tide," the news magazine of advertising and marketing. On the back page they are running a service of classified ads which should be known by every war veteran. To discharged servicemen interested in advertising and marketing they offer an opportunity to run classified ads (40 words maximum) in these newsletters free of charge. The offer is limited to discharged servicemen with experience in advertising and marketing because "Tide" primarily reaches only people in those fields. But their gesture is a very generous one and might be followed by trade papers in many other fields.
The rapid and orderly re-employmentreemployment of men and women coming out of the armed services is certainly one of our main objectives today. These young men often have private handicaps to overcome and difficulties which no one can help them to face. Only their own determination and character can make them victorious over those personal handicaps. We can, however, see that they know where the right job which they want is available, and that those who want to help them know how to get in touch with them. It seems to me that a great deal could be accomplished if other trade papers gave a service similar to the one offered by "Tide."
I was waiting for a bus on the street corner yesterday when a woman jumped out of her own car and asked me if she could take me wherever I wanted to go. Such little acts of kindness are somewhat surprising in a big city like New York, where you usually feel that everyone hurries about his business completely absorbed in his own interests. It is proof again, however, of the essential kindness and neighborliness of the people of the United States.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
