
                  HYDE PARK
                     —Real November weather, a gray day and not very cold and the weather bureau promises that tomorrow will be the same. I was in the Village of Hyde Park this morning and in the first shop a woman came up to me and said: "Real Democratic weather, Mrs. Roosevelt!" Everyone else smiled. It is a very Republican spot so I always smile rather tentatively at every one, but this morning they all smiled back and even the Republican leader asked me how the President was.
I imagine that secretly even though they may vote against him, they will not really object if he is reelected! If he is defeated they will feel kindly towards him as you always do when you win out against an adversary, whom you do not really dislike and who continues to be your good neighbor.
A rather interesting thing about the mail these days is the number of people whom we have never seen who write me stating that they are sure the President will be reelected and they hope he will do this or that in his next term. They show plainly that they want his reelection for very definite reasons, that they expect the next four years to bring some very definite achievements. I think this is a good omen for the people are really thinking and beginning to realize that their help is needed in order to accomplish any real forward steps.
The President is off this afternoon to tour the country side so we are lunching at twelve-thirty which is just as well for me as I have to leave for New York in order to be at the United Neighborhood Houses Eastside mothers' dinner tonight at seven p.m.
Then as rapid a drive back as we can accomplish for I want to be here to hear my husband boradcastbroadcast at eleven-thirty a.m. that being the real end of the campaign.
I have lived through so many campaigns that I was amused when some one wrote me the other day and asked how I preserved my serenity! I am delighted to know that I do as far as outward appearances go and I think it is probably true that through the years I have gained a great calm about all things that might be considered inevitable facts. What happens tomorrow is entirely out of our hands, the record of the past four years, the campaign that has been waged, all are over and whatever the decision may be one accepts it and builds as useful and pleasant a life as one can under whatever circumstances one has to live. You can not get unduly excotedexcited about the inevitable!
