
                  
                     Hampton, Va.HAMPTON, Va., Friday—I want to tell you about the Girl Scout Pageant held in ConstitutionalConstitution Hall on Wednesday night. It was an amateur entertainment and made one feel proud of these young Americans who presented each of their war projects. They showed how they tried to make their contributions by caring for and entertaining small children, by learning to cook and garden, to help at home, etc.
Perhaps, the part of their work which interests me most is their international friendship program. The scene in their pageant of a Western Hemisphere street showed all the arts and crafts of our neighbors to the South of us, and it was really charmingly done.
After we left this entertainment, we drove around the Lincoln Memorial. I was much gratified at the appreciation Mr. and Mrs. John Golden showed as they stood looking up at the lighting of the statue. At night it is almost more impressive, I think, than in the day, and it always gives me pleasure to take anyone to see it when I think they will really enjoy it.
Yesterday afternoon the Ambassador of Paraguay and his very charming wife came to see me. We had a talk with the help of my cousin, Mrs. Warren Robbins, since I do not yet know enough Spanish to make myself intelligible. I was happy to find that they like Washington.
Paraguayan winters, they tell me, are about as cold as our springs. The Ambassador and his wife will not mind Washington summers, for they are accustomed to some damp heat. I was interested to learn that they also have a program of school lunches in Paraguay, but their problems of providing food seem to be much simpler than ours, for bananas and mate unremarkable(mate correct) by themselves are apparently a complete meal.
We were not able to fly to Norfolk, Va., as we had expected last evening, and, therefore, motored to Richmond where we spent the night. We rose early this morning so as to be in Hampton in time for the morning meeting of the Rosenwald Fund Trustees. My sister-in-law, Mrs. Dorothy Roosevelt, and her three daughters are able to be with me. We hope to go on to Williamsburg after they have had a chance to see Hampton Institute and the countryside.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
