
                  
                     FULTON Ky. Tuesday— A very satisfactory trip to the Resettlement Homestead near Granger, about eighteen miles outside of Des Moines, yesterday afternoon. The Safety Patrol which is Iowa's name for their state police, were so extremely careful of my safety that we drove out at a snail's pace but I did have time to meet a number of Granger people and homesteaders in the village of Granger, and then drove out through the homestead, stopping to go through one home where a man and his wife and ten children lived. This is a community built near the soft coal mines. The men work in the mines in winter and one or two days a week intermittently in summer. This Iowa farm land makes any one living in New York State envious, the soil is rich and free of stones. Each homestead has from three and a half to eight acres, and they all look as though they would have good gardens and crops. What is more, the children looked strong and healthy and the young couples in the small houses had such hope in their faces it did your heart good.
My hostess with the ten children had lost several others, and she seemed worn and weary, but when I asked her if her house was better than where she had lived before, she smiled and said: "So much better." A change from a mining camp is evidently as welcome here as it is in other mining areas throughout the country. I was told by some of the men who accompanied me that these people could and would pay the government back for their investment, so fifty families are on the way to a more abundant life.
The Des Moines Chamber of Commerce takes in women on the same basis as men and they gave a dinner in my honor to which they invited various of the business and professional women's organizations, so we sat down about six hundred in number. My secretary and I reached the train just at nine o'clock and started for St. Louis.
We got out at seven thirty this morning and had breakfast in the Harvey Restaurant in the station. Our coffee was excellent and we are now on our rather leisurely way to Memphis. At the stations where we have stopped, I have found a number of people waiting to have a word with me and the children with their autograph books. It is a joy to see smiling and interested faces and this hospitality of the American people is one of the nicest traits I know.
