
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—Washington is a most astounding place. Early in the morning I think that there is no one in town, and then I discover that the editorial writers are having a dinner in the evening and gradually I accumulate six or eight people at lunch. I want to see them all,, but sometimes I wonder if they will get enough to eat.
I received a letter a few days ago from a British woman, two paragraphs of which I think will interest my readers:
"It is wonderful to see the young men from your wonderful country, coming over here as they are doing to help in the salvation of the world. There are large numbers of them around here and I feel some- howsomehow that most of them must be the sons of fathers I knew during the last war. How they remind me of the same khaki figures of 1918! And it is funny, too, how music can bring back memories. Whenever I hear one of them whistle 'Over There',,' I am automatically brought back to the days when I was 17, listening to the same old tune.
"Now, it is my own daughter who voices my thoughts when she comes home and tells me 'how nice the American boys look'—just as I used to say some twenty years ago. Well, when all our troubles are over and when all the nations are at peace once more, let us hope they will remain so, so that when my daughter is older and married, and a mother herself, she will not have to see her children talking about war as she does to me, and as I did to my mother."
The League of Women Voters is helping to educate us by sending out a very simple leaflet. On it is a game you can play all by yourself. It is entitled, "Am I An Isolationist?" Under that heading you answer twelve questions and on the back of the leaflet they tell you how you should score your answers. At the very end they tell you why the answers are thus graded, and I think this is really a signifcant statement.
The explanation is: "If you made less than one hundred you haven't passed, according to the rules of the game. If you made one hundred, you recognize the tragic, mistaken thinking that paved the way for the present war and will produce another unless it is corrected. ***... You realize that the freedom and security of the United States are vitally affected by the fate of the other peoples of the world. ***... You are aware that freer exchange of goods between nations is indispensibleindispensable in a reconstructed world, because trade is the life blood of production and employment."
Ask youyour League office for this game and play it often.
I am leaving today at 5:30 A. M.a.m. for Des Moines, Iowa, to inspect the WAACS, and shall tell you about it tomorrow.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
