
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, unremarkableN. Y., Monday—The other day someone sent me a quotation from an article written by Professor Thomas J. B. Wennerunremarkable. in the Cleveland Press. I imagine it appeared some time ago, but this little quotation is apt to the minute: "Adolf Hitler, master orator and apostle of force, never spoke face to face with a single army of 1,000,000unremarkable0 men. He could do so here—to silent men who lie buried beside gnarled tree trunks on shrapnel -scarred slopes and beneath the stubby first growth which has come to replace the dense woods obliterated by shellfire ...unremarkable. It would be a good thing if Europe's political giants, besides going to Berchtesgaden, Godesberg and Munich, could pay a visit to these battlefields of France."
As we read in the morning press that some of these "master minds" have gone home from Berchtesgaden, but that as yet no decisions have been announced as a result of the conference, we cannot help putting the paper down with a sigh and wish that these meetings might be held without any threat of war hanging over us.
I enjoy all the younger generation in the family very much, but especially the ones who are at work. Yesterday, for a few hours, I had the pleasure of having one young cousin with me, who seems to be doing more and more interesting work and to be constantly developing himself.
I lay the other night and watched one particularly bright planet shining in the sky above me. All the little stars around twinkled with more or less brilliance. That particular bright point, however, seemed to be the only thing that really shone out of the sky and for the time it seemed to shine for me alone in all the world. It was curiously like the human relationships we sometimes allow ourselves when one particular person outshines all others. A balanced impartiality is supposed to be the ideal in family relations, and yet perhaps it is good for every individual to feel occasionally that he is the one bright star in the heavens.
In reading a book which has been sent me: "Counseling Young Workers" by Jane F. Culbert and Helen R. Smith, I am impressed by the value of the information which they have gathered and the advice which they give out of their long experience. I wonder if they would agree with me that everyone of these youngsters who come to be counseled should have back of them the feeling that they are the bright star on whom someone is counting? That, it seems to me, is the greatest incentive to real success.
(COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
