
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Thursday—The days that I have been in New York City have beenfairly busy, but I should like to go back and say how interested I was by the luncheon given by the Advertising Women's Club. Lieutenant-Commander Stratton made her appeal for the women of the military forces, and Mrs. Lippmannmade her appeal for the volunteers in the nursing services, and seemed to me to say what needs to be said over and over again.
When people do a piece of work, they do it better if they have a sense that others understand the difficulties of their job, look upon their work as essential, and feel admiration and respect for the effort they make. We women should be loyal and generous to each other. We can notcannot all do the same things, but we can admire other women when they do good work in the occupations which they feel they can undertake.
Yesterday, I spent most of the day at Halloran Hospital on Staten Island, and was thrilled to have an opportunity to see what penicillin can do for our men. Dr. Lyons, who is in charge of this work there, and the nurses who have come with him from Massachusetts General Hospital, must all feel not only the excitement of a new adventure, but the satisfaction of extraordinary achievement.
I saw the Red Cross work, which seem to be going on very actively, particularly in the craft work in the wards and in the craft shop. I spoke for a few minutes with the ambulatory patients in the Red Cross building, and with some of the nurses and doctors at lunch.
Later, I attended a ceremony where one man in the medical service received a decoration for bravery in action. He rescued a man under fire on a battlefield in the European area. Three others received the Purple Heart. I had the great privilege, not only at this ceremony, but in the wards, of pinning on several of these decorations. I was only able to go through a very few wards, for this is a very big hospital, but I hope to go back again and see many more of the patients.
These past evenings in New York City I have gone to the theatre twice. "The Two Mrs. Carrols"Carrolls" keeps one sitting on the edge of one's chair, though one can almost guess the end of the story from the beginning. The amazing thing is ElizabethElisabeth Bergner's acting. With Victor Jory, she makes the play and gives one an exciting evening.
"Another Love Story," with Roland Young and Margaret Lindsay, is an amusing comedy. Roland Young is funny as usual, but though the play is well acted, I found it slightly confusing. Lines here and there are clever and amusing, and one has an evening without too much thought on serious subjects.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
