
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—When I look back on my visit to Galapagos, I
know why every man there calls it "The Rock".Rock." To a geologist, I'm sure
it would furnish several years of absorbing work, but to men establishing
gun positions and defenses, building airfields and trying to
find level space for a recreation field, it must be one of the most
discouraging spots in the world. It is as though the earth had spewed
forth rocks of every size and shape and, as one man said: "You remove
one rock, only to find two more underneath."
In between the rocks, there is deep-red dust, which permeates
everything. A few cactus plants grow and also a few trees, which are
easily blown over because they have no earth to root in.
All the water is either distilled from salt water or is brought in
on a tank ship from another island. On the whole island, there are
just two places with running water. Otherwise, tin basins or helmets
are used for washing, and the regular set-upsetup that men have at the
front for showers is the order of the day. No luxurious living there!
One boy in the dispensary, Corporal Edward Schwing, (who was born
of American parents but lived 18 of his 22 years in France, where his
father still remains) had spent much time putting up very good battle
maps (covering every front) with colored pins showing the various
activities. He told me that many boys came in to watch the pins change!
Galapagos is one of those places where "going native" would be
very easy. For that reason, during the day, men at work may wear as few
clothes as they choose but, for evening inspection, every man must be
in uniform. The Navy bars "whites" because they cannot be kept clean.
One of the most attractive places on the island is the Bluejackets
Club, which the men have created themselves. Every bit of furniture and
every decoration is their own handiwork. On the door of the club hangs
a sign which reads: "Bluejackets Club-Women Invited." The joke is that
there are no women there! American women in Ecuador have sent a few
things like curtains and Ecuadorian straw mats to various service clubs
on the island, but every day room and post exchange represents much
work by the men themselves.
Commander Huffman has some pets—two goats, Blackie and Ruth, each
with a painted green and red horn. And, in a little enclosure outside,
are two prehistoric-looking iguanas. He was disappointed because I
found these native pets interesting but not attractive!
The American man's sense of humor was evident everywhere. They had
held a competition at the Navy base for the naming and the general
appearance of the various quarters. The doctors' quarters were labelled
"Rock's Docs." That won the prize. There are outposts where small
groups of men are stationed from three to six months and then brought
back to the rock, but some of them get no more change than that, because
men with their particular skills are evidently scarce in the
services and are needed there.
You have to be deeply convinced that your job is an essential one
in order to keep your balance and cheerfulness in these surroundings.
I think perhaps it takes more fortitude and character to stand the
loneliness and hardship of this kind of service without much excitement
than the more active kind of service, though many women at home are
probably happier with the knowledge that their men are not being
sniped at by the enemy.
(COPYRIGHT, 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
