
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—We had children in the White House with us
over Easter, and the youngest members of our family have acquired a
little white Easter bunny. To the children who read my daughter's
story about "Scamper" in the White House several years ago, there will
be no surprise in the fact that this new bunny was promptly named
Scamper. He was brought by some WavesWAVES as an Easter gift to Fala. I was
a little afraid that even Fala's good education might not have eradicated
his natural instincts as far as rabbits are concerned, so their
meeting was brief, and the bunny now resides in a box of his own.
We all attended the early Easter morning service at Arlington.
This is always a very impressive ceremony to me. We walked out to the
Unknown Soldier's tomb which, in a time of war, has a particularly
poignant meaning. As the sentry walks up and down guarding the tomb,
he must be thinking today of all the boys all over the world who will
be represented in this war in this symbolic manner.
Here one should, without question, redidicaterededicate oneself to the effort
to lay foundations on which peace may be built by the generation that
fights the war in the immediate post-warpostwar period. These young people
will undoubtedly have to rebuild this torn and tattered world. The
process will be painful and will call for boldness, self-sacrifice,
courage and vision.
As each step is taken in this rebuilding process, we will see a
peaceful world being shaped, or we will see the steps that lead to war
being carved out again by personal and national greed and self-interest.
I am doing a broadcast today in the Treasury Department's Grandmother
Series. I thought I was doing pretty well with thirteen grandchildren,
but one of my co-grandmothers on this broadcast is far
ahead of me. Like other grandmothers, I have been giving my grandchildren
war savings stamps for birthday and Christmas presents ever
since the war began, but since this is a special occasion. I think
the youngest grandchild will have to have a bond of her own to mark it.
I must confess, however, that for the youngest members of my
family I often try to have either a book or an inexpensive toy in
addition to the savings stamps. Just lately I have been sent a charming
little book called "PoffetPoppet and PetoPete," by Mrs. Margaret M. Pearson
of SidneySydney, Australia, who has illustrated and printed the story
herself. I gave it to one of the younger grandchildren.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
