
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Wednesday—I went to my office yesterday morning, spent two hours there and then discovered that I was actually through with my work, so home I went to labor in my Christmas closet. I find that trying to follow directions not to waste string or paper, and never to open a package when once it is tied up, takes a good deal more thought than I usually give to Christmas preparations!
I was sorry that the President had such a short stay in Warm Springs, Ga., but I think the change was good for him. He told me they had a wonderful dinner at the Foundation on Saturday night, and he had a good sleep in his cottage.
For once, he left his dog, Fala, behind. I imagine he thought they are apt to get ticks in the South, and that the trip was not going to be long enough to warrant so much time spent on the train for a little dog. However, left behind, Fala was a very pathetic and lonely object. He deigned to spend his nights in my room and woke me up in the mornings by pawing the side of my bed and by little yaps to attract my attention. When the President came in, Fala nearly wagged his tail off.
A few people came to lunch yesterday, and I had one or two appointments. Late in the afternoon, I came over to New York City. Today I have a number of appointments and I am going to the Sale for the Blind at 37th Street and Fifth Avenue at noon, then to the Immigrants' Conference, and to the Henry Street Nurses meeting at four-thirty. I am not yet quite sure that I can manage to get to the Dorothy Maynor concert for the benefit of the Women's Trade Union League tonight, but I certainly shall make an effort to be there for a little while.
I have had so much enthusiasm over the suggestion that a Woman's Land Army might be needed. I know there are a great many women and young people who would welcome preparing for some definite thing. It is not in the province, of course, of the Office of Civilian Defense actually to carry out a program, but we hope before long to be able to suggest ways in which people can fit themselves to do whatever emergency work may be required in their communities when the summer comes.
There will be parts of the country where it will be possible to provide paid workers for farmers who need help. Wherever that is possible, it should be done. Volunteers may be needed in various specific ways, but they will be of value only if they have trained and disciplined themselves to stand outdoor work.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
