
                  INDIANAPOLIS, Ind.INDIANAPOLIS, Wednesday—We reached Indianapolis at five thirty on the dot yesterday after noon, a tribute to the driving of the State Police. I feel as though I had seen the flower of these men in a good many places, and whether they are called safety patrol, or state police or rangers, they certainly are fine set of men and fulfill their varigated duties in a very able manner.
The Girl Scouts and the press met us as usual. At five minutes to seven I found myself sitting at dinner next to Governor McNutt who had just been through a long day's session at the State Convention, and on my other side, Dr. McCullough, the W.P.A.WPA State Director who does his job for the love of it, and who you can see is vitally interested in every one of an astonishingly varied number of projects.
After a talk to the Town Hall Club, we went to a W.P.A.WPA play, a melodrama of the olden days. I enjoyed it immensely, especially the old fashioned tunes. I asked the actors if they were having a good time and there was no mistaking the genuine look of pleasure in their faces. They are actually doing something to revive the interest in the theatre and that is almost more important than bread and butter to most of them.
I was sorry for my hosts this morning! We had to be off by eight o'clock and we reached Dr. Elliott's house in Lafayette at nine-twenty. We went to see their housing experiment. This is chiefly important at present because they are putting up commercial houses out of the various materials now on the market. They are analyizinganalyzing the costs. The average price will be around $5,000 or more. Quite evident that this is not the answer to low cost housing for the nation! The next steps are going to be increasingly interesting.
The sewing room here under the W.P.A.WPA is one of the best I have seen anywhere and the project in which men with wooden legs make wooden legs for their equally unfortunate brothers, is a rather touching one. There was a small shoe mending project next to the leg making one, and everywhere in that building you sensed that people were happier for the work they were doing.
Now we are off to the train for New York.
