
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—We dined last night in the Lafayette Hotel in New York City, where one gets, I think, into the proper mood for a holiday evening. Then we went to see "The Doctor's Dilemma",," which I much enjoyed. How young and lovely Katharine Cornell looks! Though it is hard to think of Raymond Massey as anything but Abraham Lincoln, he did give me a reminiscent feeling of being in Harley Street.
George Bernard Shaw gives one food for thought, even though it is not always pleasant thought. In this particular play at least, the weaknesses depicted are amusing, serious though their consequences sometimes are.
This morning, after seeing a number of people with whom I had appointments, I went to the British War Relief Society Inc. offices. I was impressed by the variety and efficiency of the work and the number of volunteers in the executive and administrative positions.
It seems to me that if all the varied organizations working for British relief could be joined under one head, the expense of administration would be greatly reduced and more money would be available for the actual needs of the sufferers in Great Britain. I hope that the new committee appointed by the President will succeed in doing this for all the different groups working for various countries. I went to see Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt's division, which is working with school and college people who want to help the youth of Great Britain. I also saw some of the Greek war relief work. The next time I have a few minutes to spare in New York City, I shall go to their headquarters.
I had a chance to talk for a few minutes with Miss Rachel Crothers, and would have liked to go up to the theatre division, which is also working in this same building for British relief. I shall try to do that also the next time I am in New York City.
I caught the 9:00 o'clock plane back to Washington. We had a very pleasant flight which, as usual, became a little bumpy a short time before we landed. However, I had already eaten my lunch, so I did not have to maneuver the soup and coffee carefully for fear of having them land in my lap instead of my mouth!
This afternoon, I am going to tea with the Newspaperwoman'sNewspaper Women's Club to see their new headquarters. This evening a few friends will be here in the hope of inducing Mr. LaughlinLauchlin Currie to tell us something about his trip to China.
The Generalissimo and Madame Chiang Kai-shek sent the President and me two interesting seals. I doubt if many would know if I used mine, that I was putting "Eleanor Roosevelt's" seal at the bottom of my letter, or that the President put "Roosevelt" at the bottom of his. Nevertheless, the Chinese characters will make a very impressive decoration.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
