
                  
                     WashingtonWASHINGTON, Monday—Miss Manners sang beautifully yesterday afternoon at the concert and the Washington Symphony Orchestra is always a joy to me. I left rather early because I had a young man staying in the house and felt that he might find it a rather gloomy place if no one was home for tea. I find it particularly pleasant to light the open fire in my sitting room in the late afternoon and have the tea table put in there and, in the coziness of my own living room, forget for a time what a big house we are living in.
I read the first installment of Mrs. Woodrow Wilson's story last night in the Saturday Evening Post. Her style is easy and flowing and I am sure as the story goes on, it will prove of great interest, for she has lived through one of the most interesting periods in history with one of the greatest figures playing in the drama. Many dramatic events must have occurred which no one but Mrs. Wilson could adequately describe.
Today is a glorious day. We held a press conference this morning and this afternoon I fly to New York for a purely frivolous evening. I am going first to the theatre with my brother and some friends, and later to the Hotel Ambassador where Miss Chaney and her dancing partner are opening for an engagement.
The W.P.A.WPA writers project has just sent me two new publications, one the story of Cincinnati, Ohio, over a period of 150 years, and the other the New York Almanac for this year, which is most entertaining.
Two headlines in a morning paper arrested my attention. One was the statement by Mr. Alfred Landon that the Monroe Doctrine would be upheld regardless of what political party came into power in the United States. It seems to me a very wise thing to have that clearly stated at the present time. We rather enjoy our political differences in this country and we fight out our campaigns with vigor and some bitterness at times, but there are certain fundamental things on which, as a people, we are agreed and one of them, I think, is that we feel our own safety can only be secure if the nations of South and Central America remain free. Any domination from outside, whether achieved through colonization or through economic control, would not only endanger their freedom, but our own safety. Therefore, the Monroe Doctrine is not a party question.
The other heading is over a dispatch from Paris, written by a man who has just completed a tour of Germany. He seems to be impressed by the tragedy which has met him in so many places and he states what many of us have thought was probable, that there are people in Germany who are suffering today because of the cruelties which are being perpetrated there, even though they, themselves, are not the victims.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
