
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Friday—This has been a most exciting day. We were up early to be at the Hyde Park station when the President's train came in at eight-thirty. Johnny and Anne met me there and we only waited a few minutes for the train to come around the bend. We went on board to find the President looking marvelously well. Miss Le HandLeHand and Mr. McIntyre both looked well too, in spite of the fact that last week must have been quite an ordeal in Washington, for the heat was worse there than it was here.
As soon as we were in the car the newspaper reporters crowded around to see if there was to be any news story. As far as I could gather nothing of any interest was forthcoming and we proceeded home to breakfast.
We sat long over this meal and heard something of my husband's trip and something of Johnny and Anne's delightful holiday in Bermuda. Their description of the ship and the trip down was attractive enough to make me think I might like to try it some time. The photographs of their little cottage and the various scenes about them made me really feel that it would be a nice way to live on this island for a short time.
Later, Johnny, Anne and I went off to ride. Johnny was interested to see many of the things which have been done on the place during the summer, so we rode about for two hours, starting from the big house to the top of the hill back of where my husband's little retreat is going up. On coming back, we found the President and his cavalcade of Secret Service cars out inspecting the house too. Johnny liked the house so well he made an agreement with his father that he should have first call on renting it.
When Mrs. Scheider and I were driving up from New York City yesterday afternoon, we passed two of the Secret Service cars and, thinking we would wave at some of our friends, we tooted loudly. They confided in me today that they thought they were being arrested. I didn't know the Secret Service ever had such qualms, I thought that was reserved only for private individuals like myself!
I had my hair done yesterday in a big department store and by way of entertainment, models in different costumes walked about. The looking glasses reflect them very nicely so you have a fashion show while your hair is drying. This morning I had a letter from one of the girls saying she had not had the courage to speak to me, but did I remember her? She had on a pink dress and had come by twice trying to screw up her courage to speak. I am sorry she didn't, for she looked very attractive.
(Copyright, 1938, by UNited Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
