
                  
                     WARM SPRINGS, Ga., Thursday
                  —At 2:00 o'clock yesterday afternoon, Governor Rivers, the President and I, left the cottage in an open car for Fort Benning, near Columbus, Georgia. This is a remarkable military institution where officers of the United States Army are trained in practically every branch of their work. I believe there is no cavalry school there, but the size of the reservation and its topography make it possible to do very good work in nearly all branches of military service.
On our way, we passed through a number of towns where everyone seemed to be out to wave to the President. In Columbus we stopped for a few minutes so he could speak to the citizens and personally greet a few old friends.
I am afraid I am getting soft, for I can remember the time when having my hair blown to pieces and holding my hat on during an 80 mile drive would hardly have been a matter for comment. But I have become so accustomed to being comfortable, that I murmured quite resentfully over my dishevelment and the fact that my eyes felt as though plenty of Georgia clay had settled in them.
My murmurs, however, were under my breath, for I realized that my husband was entirely oblivious to any discomfort, and I decided that if he could enjoy it, I at least ought to be able to stand it. He kept up a continuous flow of conversation with the Governor as long as he was with him. When Colonel Hunt of the Marine Corps, who is stationed in Warm Springs, took the Governor's place for the last part of the drive home, the two gentlemen launched forth in a conversation on military subjects which seemed completely engrossing. Perhaps I am getting old. Anyway, I was much ashamed of myself for finding the ride uncomfortable.
We were back at our cottage by 7:00 o'clock. Mrs. Scheider was our only supper guest. After dinner, while Miss LeHand and Miss Tully worked with the President, Mrs. Scheider and I worked in my room.
I have just finished a book which I hope many people will read. It is called "Uncle Tom's Children" by Richard Wright. It is beautifully written. What impressed me most is the tragedy of fear portrayed. If only there had been no fear, the outcome of these stories might have been so very different. The very first one stands out in my mind. There would have been no shooting if the woman had controlled her fear long enough to listen to the boy's explanation.
Another book which I have had an opportunity to read down here, is Elizabeth Hawes' "Fashion Is Spinach." What an interesting person she is and how it shines out through this personal tale. When I began it, I meant to skim through it and send the publishers a perfunctory comment, but I ended by reading every word and enjoying it. I feel I have met an original and interesting human being and I hope I may know her better.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
