
                  
                     Seattle, Wash.SEATTLE, Sunday—I have a letter from Mr. Theodore Dreiser in Hollywood, California, telling me that he has been sent some copies of my column which appeared on April 10th. In it he says that I stated: "After dinner Mr. Theodore Dreiser showed us some slides of Black Mountain College near Asheville, North Carolina."
I can only infer that this error was made in a few papers. I know it was not made in my own copy, for I have that in my files. The name, of course, was Mr. Theodore Dreier, who teaches at Black Mountain College and is a nephew of a very old friend, Miss Mary Dreier. Mr. Dreiser is troubled because he feels that his following in the country will believe that he is friendly enough to the President or his foreign policy, to come to the White House for any reason whatsoever.
I am sorry, of course, that a typographical error of this kind, even though I am not responsible for it, should have caused Mr. Dreiser such embarrassment. I am taking this opportunity to state very clearly that Mr. Dreiser did not come to the White House and is still opposed to the President and his foreign policy.
Yesterday was my daughter's birthday and we celebrated by having a completely family day. At breakfast she was given a few presents and then her two eldest children presented her with the nicest possible gift. With the aid of their music teacher, they had each made recordings wishing her a happy birthday and playing two complete pieces on the piano for her.
At noon, to everybody's joy, we went off on the boat for a picnic lunch. I was told with great enthusiasm, that the cooking would be done by the gentlemen of the family, who would give us fried egg sandwiches. They proved excellent and the sun shone and we had a marvelous time. We returned early enough to play a while with Johnny, so he would not be disappointed. Then we had a birthday dinner with the necessary cake and candles. Thus ended a happy day.
Friday evening, my son-in-law showed Miss Thompson and me some of the movies taken of the inauguration in January and at various times when we have been out here. They will be a wonderful record for the children when they are grown.
Today, Anna has gathered together for me a number of people from the faculties and student bodies of various colleges. They will lunch here and we shall have an opportunity to talk over some of the work of the International Student Service. I have just joined the executive committee of this organization and am very anxious to see the work grow on the campuses in different parts of the country.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE. INC.)
