
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N. Y.HYDE PARK, March 29
                  —The best laid plans of mice and men! I went off to Hyde Park with all my plans for the week very carefully made. They included flying back to Washington with two grandchildren on the 5. 40 plane in order to attend the Hasty Pudding Show which has added interest for me this year as our son, John, is one of the "actors".
Late last evening I was informed that the 5.:40 plane trip had been cancelled. I had to change all my plans for the day, take an earlier train for New York and make a 2.:30 train. My daughter, in turn, had to change her plans in order to meet me with the children two and a half hours earlier. However, with the aid of the telephone it was all accomplished easily.
Spring is really with us, even on the Hudson River. When I arrived at Hyde Park I had to go right out to see the lilac bushes budding, and the tulip leaves poking their heads through the mulch that is still over them. Then there was much excitement, for Miss Cook is adding a room to her cottage, changing the drive and moving some pine trees. We were very busy looking at the cellar and going to look at the little apartment for one of the workmen which is being done over.
All this would have been impossible a few weeks ago, as it would have been too dark, but daylight was with us till nearly 7 o'clock, after which we went in and settled down to a supper "a deux" before the fireplace.
I drove along the Hudson River for some distance yesterday and saw only a few patches of snow. I imagine Spring is here early to make up for Winter's hardships. Our brook is still very high and we all hope the trout are flourishing now that we can think of anything but floods.

                  Mr. Hasbrouck, who built our pool, came over yesterday to see how it withstood the winter, and kindly offered to come over again when we are ready to have the water turned on.
I had a walk and sat out in the sun on the lawn this morning and I think I have the beginnings of a sunburn!
