
                  
                     Charlotte, N. C.CHARLOTTE, N.C., Sunday—Once arrived in Asheville, N. C., we found ourselves embarked on a busy but pleasant day. The air is invigorating in these mountains, with a snap lacking in warmer climates. After a press conference, we went to lunch with Mr. and Mrs. McIntyre. It is curious that, when you have known people for a good many years, the fact that you haven't seen them or even communicated with them, doesn't seem to make much difference in your ability to pick up and go on as though time was more or less annihilated. I suppose it is because people you know and see very often over a period of your life, remain forever after rather constantly in your thoughts and you never feel they have slipped away from your interests, or that you are apart from theirs.
We had some very happy hours together Friday and Saturday and enjoyed meeting Mr. McIntyre's doctor, Dr. Bernard Smith. All their efforts at present are bent on Mr. McIntyre's returning to go on the next trip the President may take. Though that seems to me a rather strenuous way to begin work again, perhaps it is easier than spending many hours at a desk daily.
After lunch we went to see Miss Margaret Durand. Her courage and cheerfulness in the face of the many months she has spent here and the variety of setbacks she has had, are a lesson to all of us. She kept repeating how much she wished she could be at work. She said she felt that, since she had been here, she knew more about the results of what everybody in Washington was trying to accomplish than she had during her very active days there. Still, she would rather be among the trees and not see so much of the forest.
After that we visited the Aston Park Marionette Club in the little building on top of the hill and saw the play which the children wrote and present themselves. They made the marionettes, pulled the strings and were the voices behind the scenes. It was very attractive and gave the audience of children a great deal of pleasure.
On the way back to the hotel I visited two craft shops. One, the Highland Craft Shop, had an assortment of really beautiful handwork from a variety of places in which I have become interested in the last few years. Back at the hotel, a group of Girl Scouts from Asheville and Waynesville each presented me with some flowers and I had a little chat with them. Yesterday morning we came by train to Spartanburg, S. C., and drove to Winthrop College in Rock Hill.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
