Two nights in New York and the theatre each night!
This is a real accomplishment for me. Friday night I went to see "Ethan Frome".." It is a beautiful piece of work. Stark tragedy, but I would not have missed seeing it, for it well cast and acted, and the play does justice to the book. What an appalling and horrible character the wife was, and how dreadful life must have been during those twenty years.
Saturday was a contrast. A merry and memorable evening because I had six of my children for dinner. We do not get together so very often, but when we do., it is fun. Four of them went off to the track meet, and two of them went with me to "Lady Precious Stream".." It is charming, amusing and subtle with its gorgeous costumes and its challenge to the imagination of the West.
The Chinese Ambassador's daughter, Miss Mai-Mai Sze, is charming in her beautiful Chinese dress, and her English would do credit to any young American. I went behind the scenes after the play to thank the author, Mr. S.I. Harung
                  , and the actors for a delightful evening, and was given an autographed copy of "Lady Precious Stream" and another of the author's books which I will enjoy.
Yesterday morning my daughter, Mrs. Henry Goddard Leach and I did a little planning on some work we are doing together, after which I spoke at a luncheon which closed the convention of the Columbia Scholastic Press Association.
The delgates were a group of very alive and vociferous youngsters, and I hope they will carry into their future lives all the enthusiasm and energy they seemed to have in the last few minutes we spent together yesterday.
In our little New York apartment Mrs. Scheider and I worked all afternoon. It was a joy to be home with one's own belongings and to have peace and quite after a week of constant travelling. It requires a contrast to make you appreciate the different things you have in life. If one were always quiet, one would never know how pleasant it is.
This morning I said goodbye to Lady Willert who is sailing for England, and now I am on the train on my way back to Washington.
