
                  
                     Beverly Hills, CaliforniaBEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Monday—Yesterday was a beautiful day. The four children who are staying in the house went out on the lawn after breakfast to roll Easter eggs. Later I received a bouquet of Easter lilies from the people of Bermuda, and then most of us went to church with the President.
We had a number of friends with us for lunch in the afternoon I received Senora Najera, wife of the Mexican Ambassador and Senora Avila CamaohoCamacho, whose husband is brother of the President of Mexico. After that, I received the high school senior class from StaatsburghStaatsburg, N. Y., which is the village next to Hyde Park. They have been very fortunate in having such good weather and I am sure enjoyed their trip.
The crowds in Washington are great. I do not remember seeing so much traffic. I am particularly glad that the cherry blossoms are out, so that no one who came hoping to see them will go away disappointed.
The White House has been filled to capacity with sight-seerssightseers during the visiting hours, and I am sure this is so with all the publipublic buildings. Our own young people went out to Mt. Vernon on Saturday and could not even get inside the house.
Yesterday afternoon, I left Washington by plane for Los Angeles, California. Weddings seem to fill my days just now, and I am here for my son Jimmy's wedding to a very sweet and lovely girl, Romelle Schneider. His orders will take him to the Pacific fleet very shortly, so I had to make this flying trip, which seems very strenuous.
In these days one does almost the impossible for a glimpse of some onesomeone whom one may not see for a long time, particularly at important times in their lives. I am well repaid for the trip, not only by being with Jimmy and Romelle and their friends, but by seeing Anna and John BoetiggerBoettiger, who came down from Seattle for the occasion.
The Easter service yesterday gave me a sense of what tredoustremendous faith people all over the world must have in order to believe there is a God with enough understanding and love to continue renewing hope through the symbol of the Resurrection.
It proves I suppose, that no matter what we human beings do that is wrong or stupid, the power that is God believes eventually we may grow better. For all of us, therefore, there is renewed hope which must never fail us either as individuals on as nations.
My trip was a little uncertain, for I had been told we would probably be delayed by thunderstorms, but I have learned long ago to possess my soul in patience and accept the inevitable. Therefore, I said a little prayer that I would arrive in time at both ends of this journey, and thus far things seem to have gone fairly well.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
