
                  WASHINGTON, Thursday
                     —Last night my husband and I enjoyed very much the dinner which the Cabinet gives us every year. There were no changes in the Official family except for the three deaths which have come to men who have been in this group—The Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. William Woodin; The Secretary of War, Mr. George Dern; and Mr. LouiseLouis Howe. Their widows were all with us and my husband expressed the hope that in spirit all the people are still with us who have worked to make the Administration serve the needs of the United States at this time.
Miss Winifred Cecil who has a most lovely soprano voice sang for us after dinner and then we returned to the White House, each of us to going to desks piled high with work. I got through at two a.m. which I think was even later than my husband. I noticed only one gentleman joined me at breakfast this morning and he had not been in on the late sessions last night!
For one thing we are frequently grateful to one of our predecessors Mrs. Calvin Coolidge. She had built on the roof of the White House a sun parlor in which our grandchildren play when they are here, and in which any guests who are not well spend most of their time. Ethel is recuperating rapidly and is finding the sun parlor and the roof outside a very good place to be. I think in a day or so she will be going homhome and I am more than happy that we have had this opportunity to have her under our roof.
I had a few extra arrangements to make this morning because Mrs. Scheider and I are starting off tonight on a three weeks' lecture tour. Tomorrow Mr. McKenzieMacKenzie King will be here from Canada with my husband, and all the arrangements must be made before leaving for the Easter Egg Rolling and for one or two social functions which take place soon after our return.
Yesterday afternoon I signed a radio contract with the Lamont, Corliss Company, makers of Pond's products. The money will be paid as usual to the American Friends Service Committee and will take care of numerous charitable interests. I am really looking forward to this work for I have not been on a regular radio program for some time and I enjoy both the working up of the programs and the feeling of contact with a great many people which comes about through the letters which I get after each broadcast.
Today is just like spring here and I had a glorious ride this morning; home for lunch and the afternoon filled with appointments.
