
                  
                     Ft. WayneFORT WAYNE, Ind., Friday—Last night in New York City I saw Mr. John Golden's revival of the play "Counsellor At Law," with Paul Muni as the successful lawyer who has come up from poverty to be a rich and well known criminal lawyer. I enjoyed every minute of the play, though today the young Communist's speech sounds a bit hollow. I am not quite sure that this play teaches a very good lesson from the moral standpoint, since all our sympathy is with the evasion of the letter of the law.
At the very end, however, there is one really valuable fact brought out, which all of us should remember. Just as the lawyer thinks life has cheated him of the one thing for which he really cared, when he is convinced that the wife he loves is a "no countaccount" woman, he is pulled back from the depths of despair by the chance to do a real job. Work, which has healed so many people, again proves to be the saving grace.
Not only Mr. Golden, but everybody else present last night was so very kind. I hope I was able to express some of the gratitude I feel for the tremendous efforts put forth by the people of the theatre in this war.
Not only have many of them given up their profession and gone into the armed services, but men and women are helping through their profession. When the history of the morale building war agencies is written, the American Theatre Wing will rank very high, and the generous theatre managers and actors will have earned our gratitude. Let us hope we shall not forget this and will continue to give them our support.
No matter how much the movies and radio bring us in the way of entertainment, and I rank them very high, they still never quite equal a good production of the legitimate theatre, or the actual hearing and seeing a fine orchestra play.
We nearly missed our train, because I could not bear to leave during the last scene. I had told my maid to meet us with our bags at the New York Central Station, instead of at the Pennsylvania Station, and had only three minutes to spare when we got on the train.
Our train was about an hour and a half late this morning. As always, the diner was crowded with service menservicemen. But we had our breakfast comfortably and I enjoyed my neighbors at table.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
