
                  NEW YORK
                     —I got in pretty late last night, but the City Club Dinner in Albany was very pleasant in that I saw so many old friends and the trip down was very pleasant.
The world is very small and soon after we started one lady came to me reminding me that I had known her in Syracuse and a little later another lady came to me saying that her husband had been brought up in Massena, New York, and knew Miss Cook very well. We had a pleasant little chat about that part of the State, which I think very lovely. Because of my visits there with Miss Cook's father, who was a very remarkable old man, I shall always enjoy any possible contact with that neighborhood.
This morning I had breakfast out on the porch, which is at the back of my little apartment, and a joy now that spring has come. You can almost feel that you are in the country! Later I started off to do some shopping for myself and for others, calling on the way at my son's house to see his two children, Sarah
                  and Kate. My son and his wife are on their way home from Europe and will land very shortly. My own recollections are, that I used to worry more the last few days before I arrived home for fear that something would happen at the last minute, and so I think a radio saying that both children are in good health will be very welcome.
I lunched at First Houses on Avenue A and Third Street; a very different spot from the opening day! It teems with life and such healthy, happy-looking children. Back to 331 Madison Avenue for a few minutes to meet Mrs. Williams, who is interested in a new type of program for Nursery Schools. Spent quite a while at the Exhibitionexhibition at the Todhunter School this afternoon, where my small granddaughter showed me around with particular pride. Then took her with her small brother to call on my godmother, Mrs. Henry Parish, Jr., and left them at home on my way down towndowntown.
Tonight Mrs. Henry Morgenthau, Jr., and I are dining together and going to the theatre.
Thus ends a busy but a pleasant day.
