
                  WASHINGTON
                     —Last night we had the annual newspaper party. It was not as warm as we might have wished but still people wandered out on the porches and I walked out in the garden to get a view of the House and it all looked very gay and pleasant. About half way through the evening, the usher came to me and said that he had just had a telephone message from Eddie Peabody who had arrived in Washington for a holiday and heard we were having a party. He offered to come down and entertain us as he did last year. We accepted with great joy and without any rehearsal Sidney and his orchestra joined in and played his accompaniment. He gave us a delightful fifteen minutes ofentertainment before supper.
This party at which the Vice President and Mrs. Garner always receive with us is a nice, informal party and I hope our guests enjoyed it as much as we did.
When I got upstairs I found one of our sons had come in for the night. These unexpected comings and goings are very pleasant and give me a chance to catch up with my family even if conversations take place in the middle of the night!
I was up early this morning to go to the station to meet a friend, I worked at my desk for part of the morning, had a press conference, and after the Cabinet ladies who were giving a picnic for the Senate ladies with me, had arranged everything, I joined them in the garden! We had a very pleasant if somewhat more formal meal than the word "picnic" usually implies, for we had tables all set and chairs to sit upon. But we were out of doors and on a day like this when the sun gives just the right amount of warmth, I think everyone wants to be out.
Later I went to see a friend in the hospital, returned to receive a group of high school girls from Briarcliff Manor, New York. At four o'clock the various women executives came to their garden party. At five the members of the American Federation of Arts came in, and during the afternoon several house guests arrived by motor and train from the south and the north, amongst them our daughter-in-law, Mrs. Donner Roosevelt and our grandson, Bill.
Eleanor Roosevelt


