We woke to gray skies and steadily falling rain but the weather prophets said showers, so we all put on linen dresses for a picnic at the top pfof Sky Line Drive which was part of the day's schedule. I had breakfast on the porch and read the papers and saw Mr. Muir, telling him as far as I could the summer plans, for they are anxious to begin at once to dismantle the rooms in which work has to be done. When I had finished he remarked. Well, there's the summer! "I thought"remarked: "Well, there's the summer! 'I thought' how many times will that schedule be changed before the autumn is upon us."

                  Mrs. Scheider came in early and sorted the mail and did some neccessary telephones and then word came that the President was ready to start and at ten minutes past ten, a calvacadecavalcade of motors, carrying the official party, all the newspaper men, and the baggage wagon with the lunch, filed out of the White House grounds. As usual a little knot of people had gathered at the gate to look and to wave at the President.
All along the road groups of people gathered and in the small towntowns at the four corners, quite a number seemed to know the approximate hour we would go through and be ready to wave at the car.
The drive is a beautiful drive, most of the way it was familiar to me, but the actual Sky Line Drive is new. The C.C.C.CCCBoysboys have done a wonderful piece of work and at the top of the hill there is a delightful picnic grounds where we all ate our luncheon. The view on both sides is perfectly gorgeous over miles and miles of forest and farm country in the valley.
We drove after lunch the last twelve miles to the site of the dedication and fortunately for us though the clouds gathered again, we had good weather through the ceremony. This will be a great recreation area and if it has the same effect on all visitors that it had on us, many of them will be thinking of the good times of their youth. As I passed the cherries at lunch, I remarked that I used to climb a tree at the end of a field and eat and eat until I could eat no more. Whereupon three very distinguished gentlemen remarked that they had done the same. The Post MasterPostmaster General added that he recalled six cherry trees at the foot of their garden which they always called the six sisters and which had furnished many cherries to playmates of his youth.
