
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday —Mr. Jo Davidson's bust of Senator Norris is a wonderful work of art, as I hoped it would be. It is like looking at the Senator himself. There is humor, gentleness, strength and wisdom in the lines which time has etched into his face. A great artist has reproduced them, letting the spirit shine through and giving in lasting form the personality of his subject.
The dinner to Senator Norris, given in New York City last night, was more than just a tribute, it was a plea from almost every speaker to continue the leadership in private life, which the Senator has given during his public career. It is wonderful to have been in public life for such a long time, where every act is scrutinized, and to come through with the admiration and confidence of such diverse groups of people.
I returned to Washington in time for breakfast this morning and found in my mail a booklet entitled: "Safety For Women In Industry." If any of you ladies are planning to work in a factory in the near future, you had better write to the National Safety Council in Chicago for this booklet. It will give you good advice on what to wear while you are at work.
Some of the things are very obvious, but we probably need them. No jewelry, particularly no rings, should be worn. Low heeled shoes will allow you to fill your daily stint with less fatigue. Wear goggles and a cap which completely covers your hair, and which has a visor broad enough to warn you when your head is getting too near any part of the machinemachine.
Slack suits, jumpers, and dresses should all be loose and comfortable, with no loose tabs, belts, or large buttons to catch in the machinery. Sleeves should either be short, or, if you prefer them long, tight-fitting. These suggestions stress the fact that a woman can still look extremely attractive in her working clothes, but that the object in going to work is to produce as much as possible. When you wear clothes about which you do not have to think, you will give more thought to the work you are doing.
I have another letter from a dressmaker, who says she has designed a dress which will conform to the WPB desire to use less cloth and to cut down on the variety of styles, which the big dress shops are now making. She says her pattern is a basic dress, which can be made in quantity by the manufacturers, and then have a variety of changes for different occasions. It sounds interesting and I am sending it over to the person who is in charge of this particular form of economy in WPB.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
