
                  
                     Minneapolis, Minn.MINNEAPOLIS, Minn., Monday—I left Washington early yesterday morning and went straight to Philadelphia to see our new little grandson, who was just a week old yesterday. He is a little bit darker as to hair and complexion than Franklin, III, was at his age. But changes are rapid in these first few weeks. I suppose I may be forgiven for thinking him a very charming baby.
I was happy to see my daughter-in-law and this baby, who is to remain nameless until his father gets home to see him and to share in choosing his name. I have a suspicion that both of them would have welcomed a little daughter. But that old superstition that boys predominate in war time has held good in this case. And, of course, I think when a baby arrives, everyone is always happy with whatever sex the good Lord sends.
I returned to New York City in time for lunch and I am planning to spend a little while thinking out problems of organization. We have, in my department in the Office of Civilian Defensea number of divisions reaching out through the regional bureaus down to the community level. I am convinced, however, that we need one over-alloverall planning group, and two other groups to meet those needs by the use of everevery available agency, public and private. This over-alloverall planning group will tie in all the other divisions and use them to the best advantage, besides working closely with the civilian protection organization. The whole picture will be able to meet new needs and unexpected demands as well as those situations which already exist.
I have always held that a good organization should function in whatever way you planned it to function. In this particular case, I think it important for the heads of the Office of Civilian Defense to keep in close touch with the regional offices and to see as much of different localities as possible.
The day when I shall be satisfied that my small part of the Civilian Defense Office will go on, whether I am on hand or not, has not yet come. I feel sure that it will soon be accomplished, particularly with the able leadership heading up the various divisions, and all the people who have been my close assistants working with Mrs. Henry Morgenthau, Jr.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE,)
