
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Tuesday—Last evening I went to a meeting for the support of Bethune-Cookman College, at which Mrs. Pearl Buck made a most interesting address. She has been studying Thomas Jefferson. Perhaps a little study of his writings would be valuable to the country as a whole at this time, when we are trying to make democracy mean something to the whole world.
I reached New York City this morning and was glad of a few hours at home before starting by subway for Barnard College. Even in my native city, I don't always strike the right subway, and instead of taking one which would have landed me on Broadway, I found myself at Lenox Avenue and 116th Street!
I had to take a taxi across, and then, because the taxi-driver could not find the number, I stepped out two blocks away. A rather harried young girl awaited me at the gate, and she had a relieved expression when she ushered me into the Deanery and Miss Gildersleeve's presence.
It is always a pleasure to be with Dean Gildersleeve. The only other guests were four very attractive students. We were through lunch on time in spite of my tardiness, and the assembly began at the appointed hour. Afterwards, I met a small group of students and they escorted me back to the right subway station!
Two youngsters went all the way down to 14th Street with me. They are majoring in foreign languages and one of them told me she had to write a composition in Spanish and French once a week. Her professor had told her to write about her experiences, so she decided that a trip with me in the subway would be a good subject. It evidently satisfied her and the two of them went off beaming, while I waited for the local train to bring me to Sheridan Square.
I worked on the mail for a while, and then a young woman, Miss Venzuella Jones, came to read me her script about a war incident which happened at Pearl Harbor. It is a very moving and thrilling dramatization, and I rather hope that some daysomeday it will be done for the public.
This evening I go to the Girl Scouts dinner. I was glad to have word today from Mrs. Paul Rittenhouse, the National Director, that eleven youth-serving agencies are joining together and coordinating their projects. Some of them may hold a joint camp for farm workers this summer. I think this kind of collaboration is extremely valuable and should be carried on in as many fields as possible.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
