
                  NEW YORK, Thursday
                     —One of the papers this morning carries an amusing little tale of an incident that happened as we passed through Waterbury, Connecticut, yesterday! I lost my way because there was a detour and I had to stop and ask how to get back on route fourteen, with the result that the policeman recognized me and asked me to drive around the corner and park while he went to get another officer of the law, who stood at the intersection, so they could give me correct directions. I was entirely unconscious of his humorous and kindly description of me to his fellow officer, but I did shake hands with them both. Then my first friend insisted on riding on the running board of my car for several blocks to be sure we got on the right road, even though I protested mildly that it looked as though I were being arrested!
I have learned that it is just as well to avoid even the appearance of something which you prefer not to have published as a fact! So many things are published as facts in any case which have no foundation in them whatsoever, that I don't suppose it really matters! For fair minded people usually wait until they verify a statement before they believe it, and those who believe it without verification are the ones who want to believe it!
I try to teach the younger members of my family as much indifference as I have myself to the untruths of this world, but it is harder to be philosophical when you are young.
Mrs. Scheider and I left by train this morning at seven-thirty. We found New York City a hot place in comparison to the country when we started to do one or two errands.
We found Mr. Matthew Hasbrouck on board, who built our swimming pool at Hyde Park. He came to sit with us and tell us about a remarkable undertaking in Florida to make a study of the habits and lives of the great fishes of the sea possible for scientists and for people in general. At the same time it will make the photographing for the movies of the actions of these monsters of the sea possible. It is a very interesting undertaking, but a very difficult engineering feat and he said that he had never worked so hard. I thought he seemed so much interested, however, that the work has been no drudgery.
My taxi-driver got caught behind a truck which he thought was going to block the way and blew his horn. Before I knew it, a policeman stood beside him and he was lectured on the subject of using a horn as a warning and not as a method of moving traffic. He was only warned and not given a summons, but it was a very good lesson to me, for I drive often in New York City and might have done the same thing without thinking!
