
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday —Every day I receive new ideas for ways in which we can help the British people. One is novel and interesting, and should be an outlet for some of our young people. The All American Football Team has been asked to be chairman of the Football Blankets and Hoods Committee of Bundles For Britain.
The Bundles For Britain organization and the English Speaking Union will be glad to receive contributions of discarded hoods and blankets at the Jefferson Hotel, Richmond, Virginia. They will be sent to London for use by the people in the bomb cellars. They ask you to leave on your school or college colors, because they may add a bit of cheer to times and conditions which must be a drab and uncomfortable part of existence.
Just before lunch yesterday, Her Royal Highness, the Princess Juliana, with Admiral-BaronAdmiral Baron and Baroness De Vos Van Steenwyk, her Gentleman and Lady-In-Waiting, arrived. They are delightful guests and I only hope they are not being worn out by our usual effort to show them more than they probably desire to see.
Princess Juliana is deeply interested in the Red Cross, and this morning she has gone to our Red Cross Building. Yesterday afternoon we drove to Mount Vernon and she seemed to enjoy the country and the novel experience of trying to understand what an old-time American plantation was like in the 1700's. The scent of the box in the garden was noticed at once and enjoyed, when we walked through on our way back to the cars.
The Princess Juliana joined me in receiving the foreign students in the afternoon. The two Dutch students, who had last been presented to her in Holland two years ago, were, of course, greatly pleased to see her here. She remarked afterward on the interesting faces of the young people as they went by, and was much impressed by the four who were interviewed on the radio. It was rather thrilling to see the first girl graduate as a doctor in Haiti. She is here studying gynecology and will then return to serve the women of her own island.
In the evening, we attended the concert given by the National Symphony Orchestra, with Dr. Hans Kindler conducting. As a special attention to the Princess, this orchestra played a well-known Dutch song. Mr. Joseph Szigeti, who appeared as the guest artist, is, of course, a great violinist and we all enjoyed the concert very much.
At about 12:30 this morning I took our guests to see the President in his office and then we had an informal luncheon. Later in the afternoon the Princess will go to her own legation to attend a reception.
I am so thankful that the weather is at its very best. While, for us it is fairly cool, our guests, who already have snow several feet deep all around them in Canada, exclaim about how pleasant it is to be in such a warm climate.
(DISTRIBUTED BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
