
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Monday—Two young girls came to lunch with us yesterday and, while we sat talking, the news came that my husband's aunt, Mrs. Forbes, had died. In the late afternoon, Miss Thompson and I drove down to Newburgh to see the family there and to find out if there was anything I could do.
I telephoned my husband and Franklin, Jr., and Ethel. I shall be able to go down this afternoon, for the funeral service is in Newburgh. I hope, since the interment is in Fairhaven, Massachusetts, our son John, will be able to meet his grandmother there.
I thought my husband looked rather tired and sad this morning. I know that having only three members of the older Delano family left, will make a real break in a very close family circle.
Last night Franklin, Jr., and Ethel had supper with us and we talked until late. This morning after my husband, AmabassadorAmbassador Bullitt and Miss Le HandLeHand arrived, Franklin, Jr., and I went out for a ride. It was pretty hot, however, and the flies made life miserable for man and beast, so we were not gone long.
Before coming in, we rode into the garden and Franklin, III, was put up on the saddle in front of his father. He seemed to enjoy every minute of the little walk which the big hunter took with him perched on his back. When he was lifted off, he kept repeating, "Again, againunremarkable.," and seemed disgusted that there was no further ride in store. I was amused, for when we tried to put him on the pony by himself, he refused to have anything to do with riding!
I have been asked to tell my readers that it is not an outunremarkable- right insurance by the Government which guarantees their deposits in savings banks, but that banks which are members of the Federal Deposit Insurance CompanyCorporation, have their deposits insured to a maximum of $5,000 per individual account.
They buy and pay for this insurance and the Government does not contribute to it, but I think it is only fair to say that this was initiated by the present Administration in Washington. It is only because the Government is willing to do this for the banks that you, as an individual, can have up to $5,000 insured in your savings bank account, if you choose a bank which takes advantage of this opportunity offered by the Government. If this insurance had been available before 1929, a number of people might still have thirtheir life savings.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE. INC.)
