
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday—I had a small luncheon yesterday for Mrs. Marvin H. McIntyre, who is soon leaving Washington to return to the West Coast to be with her daughter. Mrs. McIntyre said a rather lovely thing, remarking that she felt sure that, in spirit, Louis Howe, Marvin McIntyre and Missy Le HandLeHand had all taken part in the last campaign, showing plainly that to her there was no break between this world and the next as far as love and affection are concerned.
In the afternoon Mrs. Francis Biddle brought Mrs. Catherine Drinker Bowen to tea. Mrs. Bowen wrote the life of Justice Holmes. She told me that she had often written about the White House purely as she imagined it, and that seeing the rooms which she had so often pictured in her mind's eye was a really exciting experience. I can well imagine that for historically-minded people with imagination, a tour of the White House is full of visions of former years and varied characters.
An officer just back from overseas dropped in for a chat before dinner, and an old friend dined with us.
At 8 o'clock Mrs. Robert John Matthews visited me with 23 students who have been working in her courses on political science at the university. A few of them are trying to gain some first-hand knowledge by talking with the secretaries in certain Congressmen's offices, by attending hearings and talking to the clerks of the committees on which the particular Congressmen in whom they are interested serve. I think there is much interest among young people in questions of politics and government, and I am always glad of a chance to talk with them and hear the questions which come up during a period of discussion.
Someone who read my column about Harold McMahon's shop for the employment of disabled people in Buffalo, N.Y., has written me of a plan started in Reno, Nevada, by Morris E. Heiser. He has equipped a large building in a downtown area with stone polishing and cutting machines for the cutting of gems and the making of jewelry. His interest is in the employment of handicapped war veterans. Mr. Heiser is negotiating with the Naval hospital at Mare Island, California, for employees, and he will run a school to teach the trade and will pay veterans during the learning period. My correspondent feels sure that men who have considerable handicaps will nevertheless be able to earn a good living. The plan has been approved by the Nevada Veterans of Foreign Wars, and I am sure that other people will be interested to watch its development, since in many parts of the country industry should take the lead in providing employment for handicapped men.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
