
                  
                     Seattle, WashingtonSEATTLE, Monday—About ten colleges and universities of the International Student Service were represented here yesterday at luncheon and stayed with us until nearly 4:00 o'clock. They agreed that they wished to have a further discussion in preparation for some kind of work next winter. Everyone present felt that greater clarification of the problems of today, through discussion, is one of the needs on the campuses.
We all talked to the President on the telephone Saturday night, even the youngest member of the family managed to say: "Hello, Grandpa," and to be really understood. Originally I had thought that, because my husband was away from Washington, he would not be able to talk to us on Anna's birthday and would have to wait until Sunday. However, he managed his conversation quite as well from Charlottesville, Virginia.
It was fortunate for us because we left at about 5:00 p.m. yesterday and went across the lake on the floating concrete bridge, which always seems to me the most extraordinary engineering feat. Mr. and Mrs. StanlyStanley Donogh,whom we have visited, have a charming house with a lovely view of the water.
Mr. Donogh enjoys really good food. He has arranged a charcoal burner for his own use and we were given the best steaks I have eaten in many a long day. They showed us the outdoor grill where they cook and eat during the summer months. I think they look upon this indoor one as a mere makeshift which makes the winter months possible.
We came home fairly early and took Miss Thompson to her train for Chicago. I think she really likes this trip because for two solid days she can sleep as late in the morning as she wants, with no feeling that I am going to suggest work before she can drink her morning coffee.
If all goes well, I shall reach Chicago an hour before she does. I take it for granted that all will go well, for I have been so fortunate on my last few trips by air. It won't prevent me, however, from saying a little prayer to the weather manwaetherman.
Everyone asks me out here if I don't prefer this climate to that in the East, and I must say it has many advantages. I have said before that this Northwestern Coast is very like the coast I know so well on the Northeastern shore of our Continent, and quite agree with my children and grandchildren that this is a grand place in which to live. The West is a young man's country and there is a sprit of freedom in the air, but I am afraid that I am too old to change in my loyalty to my own home on the Hudson River.
Today is a busy day, but I shall have to tell you about it tomorrow.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
