
                  HYDE PARK
                     —I have always known that I am not as good a night owl as either my husband or my children! I can get up very much more easily in the morning and in fact it is a standing joke that I often have to go and remind people who have been called when I was that the time has arrived to really get up. Evening when it comes, however, and I have been up since six-thirty, out in the air most of the day, swimming or riding, then I can hardly keep awake and the rest of my family is wider and wider awake as the evening goes on, and no amount of hinting on my part will move them towards bed.
Last night we were discussing the ever present question of what is going to happen during the next few years in this troubled world of ours. We had with us a gentleman and his wife who are widely travelled and who know conditions throughout the world as well as in their own country. And the result was that eleven o'clock and twelve o'clock went by and it was twenty minutes to one before I could get my husband started to bed. I was deeply interested but like Martha of old somewhat concerned for the practical details of life. Two of us had to make early trains on Monday morning and I will say that seven-thirty breakfast this morning seemed very close to one a.m.
We all went out to the main highway this morning to see the go by. Colonel Ferguson had one of the anti-aircraft guns driven into our big field and the men unlimbered and showed how it was operated. The day was hot, the sun was full upon them, and I didn't blame the boy I heard murmuring under his breath: "Gee, it would be us!"
The President, however, was very much interested in seeing all the latest developments and the children wanted to know what everything was for. I realized my own terrific ignorance when some things went by which looked like inverted speakers and I discovered that they were listening devices. At last all the excitement was over, the state trooper had succeeded in keeping the traffic going and preventing accidents in spite of the rolling by of the regiment! Passing cars noticed the President's car parked and as they discovered him, would slow up to wave or go by looking annoyed because they could not understand why the traffic was helfheld up.
We are having a birthday party today and so a number of friends are arriving during the afternoon, and to add to the excitements somewhere around one hundred Democratic ladies are coming to tea in honrhonor of Mrs. Daniel O'Day as they are having a meeting in Poughkeepsie today.

