
                  
                     Rochester, Minn.ROCHESTER, Minn.
                  —The President went up to the hospital this morning and we were all glad that he could see Jimmy looking really bright and well before he had to leave for Washington. He changed his plans and instead of returning to Hyde Park, went through to Washington because he was really anxious to be there while the situation abroad is so critical.
We can only hope for better news in the course of the next few days, in which case he will be able to return to Hyde Park for a celebration on Saturday in which he takes a special interest because his great-great-grandfather, Isaac Roosevelt, was a member of the New York State Constitutional Convention which met in Poughkeepsie and ratified the Constitution of the United States so many years ago.
Last night, after we had visited the hospital, Mayor and Mrs. Moore and I went to Mayo Park for a few minutes to see some of the children give an entertainment in the outdoor theatre. This is a recreational project, partly sponsored by the city welfare committee and partly by WPA, I understand. The audience is largely made up of fathers, mothers and youngsters.
One little girl left her seat and stood spellbound below the stage until a smart looking Boy Scout about her own age, came and suggested that she return to her proper place, which she promptly did without a murmur. This is evidently a community in which law and order is respected, even in the person of a diminutive Boy Scout.
I have had no real interviews with the press on this trip, but one young high school boy, representing his school paper, not being able to talk with me, sent me his list of questions. I think the first one will amuse you. It reads:" Should "Should high school students go Dutch treat?"
I suppose the whole idea of the chivalrous male who assumes all the responsibility for his sheltered companion, is involved in the answer, and yet I can notcannothelpinghelp feeling that in these days it might be a good idea to learn to go Dutch treat in high school. After all, a girl needs to have a sense of responsibility about money and how she spends it almost as much as a boy. We usually have to share these responsibilities all the rest of our lives, so perhaps this is as good a way as any to learn.
I have just finished Margaret Halsey's diary called "With Malice Toward Some" and I think it excellent to read aloud, especially if you don't read too much at a time. It is most entertaining and packed full of witty observations. It will keep you laughing, but like many books of this kind, too much of it will pall. People who are very clever or very amusing should be taken in moderate doses, for the rest of us cannot keep up over too long a period.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
