
                  
                     WASHINGTONunremarkable, Dunremarkable. C.—I forgot to tell you that we all went to the horse show at Fort MeyerMyer on Thursday night, which was given for the benefit of the Infantile Paralysis Fund. I was disappointed not to see Mr. Gene AutreyAutry ride. He had appeared the night before and, I am sure, to the joy of everybody present, judging from my own disappointment when he did not appear on Thursday night. Perhaps I had an extra reason for wanting to see him, for he rode one of our horses, Aa Palomino, given to John some years ago in New Mexico.
Friday afternoon we had a musicalmusicale at the White House and Mrs. Dorothy Kemp Roosevelt and Mrs. Loraine McDonald, of Detroit, played a delightful program on two pianos. Miss Nemone Balfour, soprano, accompanied by Mr. Walter Robert, sang a group of German and Scotch songs. Both were well received, but, since we understand English better, we knew more of the old Scotch and English songs, so I thought those were a little more popular and evoked warmer applause.
Having in my house, my little niece, Janet Roosevelt, has made me swim every night, for she is evidently fond of all kinds of sports and does them well. I only hope that after she leaves us I shall keep up the good habit, because it is the only exercise I have been getting, since riding has not been possible.
Yesterday afternoon, I had a tea for the people attending the National Housing Conference. I was extremely interested in this connection to be given an advance copy of the Survey Graphic, which centers around the "home" this month, and is an extremely good number.
While we are on magazines, I hope a great many people will read an article on our insane asylums called: "The Living Death" by Joseph Harrington in the current CosmopolitianCosmopolitan. I have a personal interest in it, because one of my columns inspired the editors to investigate, and this article was then written. Mr. Harrington has certainly found many things that we citizens should know.
I wonder how many of you have listened over the radio to the program, "Art For Your Sake." The broadcasts tell about the lives of the painters and their masterpieces. I can think of no more delightful way of taking an art appreciation course, or of supplementing one given in school.
I hate to read in the newspapers that the war in Europe is not really a war at present, but that when spring comes we are going to see what horrrshorrors each nation can bring to the other. Spring, which is the time of rebirth and beauty, should never be used to bring death and destruction to human beings. Is there no way to make people realize that a restoration of freedom in Europe might bring about the cooperation of other nations, thus making the world economic situation a sensibly planned picture instead of the crazy quilt it has been for the last few years.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
