
                  
                     Pensacola, FloridaPENSACOLA, Fla., Friday—I enjoyed my time in Pensacola. One is certainly conscious of the activity of the training program going on and all that it entails, but nothing can mar the charm of the Southern atmosphere. Even if you are busy, you feel less busy in the South than you do in the North. I am just about to leave on the return flight to New York City, for tomorrow I must be at Hyde Park to welcome the Duke of Kent and some other guests.
The President reached Hyde Park yesterday, so he was there to welcome my daughter-in-law, Mrs. Elliott Roosevelt, and her two children. They will be with us, I hope, for a long visit. I have not seen the children for some time and I am looking forward very much to having them at Hyde Park.
The pony has had very little exercise of late and I hope they will ride him every day, except when he will be away at the Dutchess County Fair. There is always a horse show during the fair and I imagine we shall enter the pony and one other horse, if one of our little neighbors is willing to ride them.
Today, I had better take up something which has come to me from Lexington, Kentucky. I am asked to explain how I happened to be one of the sponsors for "Finland, IncorporatedInc." The answer is very simple. After the Finnish-Russian War, a great many of us wanted to help Finland in any way that we could, and this was an organization which was started to be of assistance in any way that seemed possible.
At present, the Finns are fighting with the Germans against Russia. I doubt if they had any choice, but, of course, "For Finland IncorporatedInc." can do little or nothing for them. For the time being I have resigned from the organization. I have also been supporting a Finnish orphan.
I have written to find out whether there is any assurance that the money contributed now actually feeds that child. I would not want to make any child suffer if I could help at the present time, but if the money is not accomplishing its object, I shall put it in a fund to await the day when peace comes. With our small contributions each of us can help the building processes which will have to go on in some many parts of the world.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
