
                  
                     ArthurdaleARTHURDALE, W. Va., Thursday—Yesterday afternoon, the President of Liberia, Mr. Edwin Barclay, and the President-elect, Mr. W. V. S. Tubman, arrived at the WhitehouseWhite House at 5:00 o'clock. There had been a slight uncertainty as to whether they would be able to get here.
They came in on time, however, and were received as,as usual, on the lawn with the appropriate military honors. The Cabinet was present to greet the heads of this small nation, in which we in this country have a special interest since we helped found it.
I found myself deeply interested in my conversation at tea, and I wish I knew more about the whole African Continent, the knowledge of which, so far as I am concerned, represents the usual maps and nothing more. Perhaps, some daysomeday, travel will be so quick and easy that every country will represent people to us, people whom we know and understand.
After I had taken the President of Liberia, and the President-elect, to their rooms, I retired, for the usual stag dinner was given in the evening, and I was obliged to leave by the night train to get to Arthurdale, W. Va., this morning.
Have you happened to come across a little book of drawings entitled, "The Lonely Ones." The artist, William Steig, has appeared principally in magazines and you doubtless are familiar with his work. The drawings in this book are impressions of people.
They are very individual people and I think you will be amused by them. The expression of the gentleman whose picture is captioned "I do not believe in misleading people," is really wonderful. The whole attitude of the figure captioned "If you are too good natured people step all over you," will remind you not to be too good natured for quite a while to come.
There is another book which came into my hands yesterday, entitled,", "The Gremlins," from the Walt Disney production, and it is a Royal Air Force story by Flight Lieutenant Roal D.Roald Dahl. It is enchanting and when you have read it, you can pass it along to the younger members of the family. Though they may not get as much out of the text as you do, they will love the pictures even more. It is the first time I have met a "Finella" (Finella correct) and she certainly is entrancing. I should think that she would make much more trouble for the "Boos" (Boos correct) than the Gremlins have.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
