
                  NEW YORK, Monday
                     —It was good to be in the country yesterday, though it looked rather gloomy with the grey Autumn sky. We were indoors, however, most of the time, as one of my friends is arranging a new apartment, which is always an interesting occupation for me. I would have liked to be an interior decorator! We are gradually getting a little colony established around our Val-Kill cottage, and I hope sometime a few more friends will settle down in our vicinity. I came to New York in the late afternoon, going straight to my daughter's for supper. At the taxicab station in Grand Central station there was such a crowd that I could not find a taxi. I stopped to speak with Mr. and Mrs. George Lunn of Schenectady, and he commented on the fact that he had wired the President his congratulations early in the afternoon of election day, because, when he found that Schenectady was going strongly for him, he knew the rest of the country was going to follow suit. How often we judge the rest of the world by our own experience, and I wonder if it is always a safe way to do, even though in this case he was entirely correct! Even after this conversation, there were no taxis to be had. Finally I went down to the starter and meekly asked if I could get a cab. There was one waiting around the corner, and he called to a man who didn't seem very anxious to start out. He came, however, and I rather apologetically said that I had been unable to find one in the regular line. With a grin, he turned to me and remarked: "You were lost in the crowd, weren't you? I've had you before, here and at the Pennsylvania, when you were traveling alone, and you come in just as quietly as you did today."
I went out to speak today at the Jewish Center school, in Far Rockaway, L.I., at a luncheon which the mother's club had arranged. I was much interested in the school itself and in what they are trying to do. It is a progressive school, but they are teaching Hebrew and trying to preserve the knowledge and culture of their race and make it of value to Young America. I wonder if many racial groups could not take a leaf out of their book, and if the result might not be far-reaching in making us understand other nations and what we have drawn from them. Respect is the first requisite to good fellowship.

