
                  
                     Buffalo, N. Y.BUFFALO, N.Y., Thursday—After I visited the Red Cross workrooms in Charlotte, N. C., yesterday, I went to a reception which Mr. and Mrs. Charles Tillett had at their home, and enjoyed seeing them and meeting some of their friends. Then I went back to the Hotel Bar-ringerBarringer and had the pleasure of seeing one of the girls I had taught in school years ago, who came with her husband, Lieutenant Louis Jallade, from Fort Bragg, where he is now stationed.
I also saw Mr. Ray Swayze, whom I had seen often years ago with a group of young people. He was looking forward very happily to entering into boy scout work as a career.
After the lecture, we took the train back to Washington. Yesterday was rather cloudy, so perhaps it was just as well that I was not trying to fly to some distant point. I lunched with the wives of the members of the 74th Congress and had a most enjoyable time.
We left Washington Wednesday evening by train for Buffalo, N. Y., where I am giving a lecture tonight. Having a few hours at home yesterday afternoon was very pleasant. I was distressed to find that an epidemic of measles in Warm Springs, Ga., is preventing the President from taking his proposed trip down there. I hope he will be able to make his visit while I am away so that we can all meet in Hyde Park for a week-endweekend on my return.
In the past few days I have had so much time on planes that I actually finished reading everything I took with me. I may have mentioned to you before "War By Revolution",," by a young Englishman, Francis Williams, who has been in politics for a number of years. I was much interested in it because I feel that his contention is correct, that really to win the fight against Hitlerism, the people in all the countries under Hitler's control must want freedom and a better life brought about through their own action in preference to accepting whatever a dictator gives them.
Mr. Williams insists that this must be a "people's war".." The following quotation, perhaps, epitomizes his view of the future: "It (the war) will be won when the people of BritainspeakBritain speak to the people of Europe and in one voice call them to a democratic revolution of the people against tyranny everywhere."
Another small book, by an American who originally came from Kansas but has lived for many years in the Balkans, is apparently inspired by Anne Lindbergh's book, "The Wave of the Future".." Mr. R. H. Markham writes "The Wave of The Past" and insists: "The past has its mark and the future has its mark. The one is slavery and the other is freedom." I think you will find both of these books of interest.
If you want a rather weird but touching story, read Paul Gallico's "Snow Goose." In every war certain legends get about in the army. This is a legend of the beaches of Dunkirk, with a background of sadness and tenderness expressed most beautifully in the story.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
