
                  CHICAGO
                     —I saw my first Red Cross workers in an office building yesterday and that reminded me that the Christmas Seal sale and also the membership drive are on. I always forget when this time comes acroundaround because I have been a life member for many years and it has been a custom in our Village of Hyde Park, to collect from everybody on election day. I always pay additional dues as part of my voting duty!
It was not until the familiar uniform loomed before me that I thought of the meaning back of all this work. We so rarely think as the years roll by how much the Red Cross does in every emergency that arises. I think we have become so accustomed to the fact that the Red Cross is on hand that we take it as much for granted as though they dropped from Heaven. We do not realize that if it were not for the cooperation of so many, many people these devoted workers could not do the work which they do in flood, and fire and a thousand other contingencies.
If you are like me and have forgotten so far, be sure that you join the Red Cross and buy your Christmas seals.
After my lecture last nigh, I had been asked to receive a "selected few" back stage, but long experience has taught me that it never is a selected few and the line passing in front of me to shake hands went on and on and on. Finally two small boys who had been selling magazines on the street came in, and I looked at one with interest. I doubt if he was much more than ten years old, small for his age, and on crutches but his spirit was all there and as he came up to me he said: "Would you sign one of my magazines, ladtlady?" These small boys have a "never say die" spirit! One of them dogged my footsteps all day and finally got my autograph before I left by dint of sticking to it until my resistence was worn down. There is plenty of persistence left in the young males of America!
We got into Chicago this morning at seven o'clock. By my watch it was eight o'clock so I gained an hour and had a grand time feeling leisurely until we left at ten twenty to drive out to River Forest for my lecture at Rosary College. It was a big group of Catholic young people organizing for peace. All one could do was to hope that their efforts would be successful.
In this world where force is still rampant one holds one's breath when one looks into the faces of young people. If only they can succeed where we of the older generation have failed!

