
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—Yesterday was a very quiet day and I spent most of it catching up on mail. In the late afternoon we had a meeting of people interested in the International Student Service.
There was a very interesting editorial in one of the metropolitan papers on Thursday. It brought up the much discussed question of of public schools in England. These schools, which correspond to our most exclusive boarding schools, are giving consideration to changes for the future.
Some of our educators, who are concerned about real freedom of opportunity in education, are also thinking about what we should do. There are colleges in this country in several of the bigger cities where tuition is free to the citizens of that city. There are statestate universities where tuition is free to the young people of the State. Board and lodging is still a considerable expense, however, so we have many young people who give up obtaining a college education because financially it is too much of a burden.
That is why some of us have been so much interested in the National Youth Administration grants to college students, as well as to graduate students. I agree with the writer of the editorial that: "A democracy needs leaders, influential by talent and by character. The wider the basis of choice, the more successful the democracy will be and the more capable of resisting the vulgar fuehrerunremarkable—
                  prinzip which now afflicts so great a part of the world."
To do this however, there will have to be a system of grants to students who are worthy of obtaining higher education, otherwise this type of education is available only to those whose families are able to pay for it.
A letter has just come to me on the value of milk powder. Milk in this form can be shipped long distances and still retain its nutritive value. It is cheap, but not whole milk. As a sub-family head, I want to say at once that I am one of those who like milk just as it comes, but I also believe that there is great need at present for the education of the public in the use of processed foods in general. If you can notcannot get good clean, whole milk, you should get powdered milk, since it will provide your family with the necessary nutritive values.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
