
                  
                     Hyde Park, N. Y.HYDE PARK, Sunday —Yesterday was a wonderful day. I had no outside engagements! I woke on my porch in the morning to the realization that the sky was not completely clear, but the sun was struggling through the clouds and the birds were chatting volubly. It finally turned out so delightful, although there was very little air stirring and when you were not in a bathing suit, it was quite warm.
We swam with the little girls in the morning, did the mail and lunched on the porch. In the afternoon two young men who are training at Fort Schuyler for the Navy came up to spend their week-endweekend leave, and everyone lay in the sun or had another dip, prolonging it as much as possible. I played two games of deck tennis and took about half an hour to return to a normal state, even after trying to cool off in the pool.
After supper I filled my car with the entire family and first we went up to the President's cottage to say good-byegoodbye to a young couple who are off to Newport, R. I., Monday morning. The young man is going into the Navy and she is going to stay in Newport with her family. This gave us a chance to see the sunset from the President's cottage. As we came down again, I realized that the purple weed, which always makes our own pond a riot of color, is beginning to come out and in the early evening light the reflection in the water was very beautiful.
Then we drove over to the Big House to make sure that all the arrangements for the concert, which is being given by the Dutchess County Philharmonic Society, had been made. I am saying a little prayer that no thunderstorm or shower will mar this part of the day, for it ought to be very enjoyable. We are more than fortunate to have Mr. Hans Kindler come up from Washington to conduct. We hope that in spite of gas restrictions many people will attend, as it is a benefit performance for the U. S. O.USO and other war groups.
The members of the Hudson Shore Labor School are coming over for their annual picnic at noon today and so this promises to be a fairly busy day. One always finds this group a very interesting and enjoyable one to entertain.
After supper this evening we will go to New York City, as tomorrow morning early I must be on my way to Asheville, N. C., where I am visiting one of the International Student Service's summer institutes.

