
                  
                     Golden Beach, FloridaGOLDEN BEACH, Fla., Tuesday —Last night three of us went to a movie. I think it was called "Adam Had Four Sons." We arrived toward the end of one showing, so we entered in the dark and came out before we reached the end of the picture. It was like reading the end of a book before the beginning.
I was interested in a short presentation of some of the boys in the Army and Navy and the entertainment provided for them. It didn't seem to me particularly inspiring, but perhaps I am expecting too much.
Our days continue sunny and warm. We walked miles along the beach yesterday and out of the sun. It was really cool, but I succeeded in burning my face and lips to a crisp, which I hope will eventually turn into a good brown.
There is a column by Mr. Pegler in the morning paper down here, which I think is particularly fine. He points out that the search for an individual or a group of people, on whom to pin possible war guilt, is really futile. AdolphAdolf Hitler has told us that he planned for this war and that he has thought out each move with care before making it.
Mr. Pegler tells us that even if we are drawn into the war, it will not be our doing, but the prearranged plan of Mr. Hitler. He expresses it, of course, much better than I can, but the thought seemed to me to be one that it is wise to bring home to all of us, because what happens during the next years does not lie entirely in our own hands.
Our statesmen, our Congress and our people may strive in the sanest and most temperate way, to meet each situation as it arises. But we are dealing with people who lay their plans far ahead and we will have to try to be as far-sightedfarsighted as they are.
For the time being, I think that far-sightednessfarsightedness lies in stepping up our production, in aiding those who believe in the things in which we believe and, at the same time, in preparing ourselves in every possible way for future defense. Part of this defense, it seems to me, is a mental defense, and is as important for the women and children as the men. It lies in building within us a kind of courage which is ready to meet whatever comes and which is willing to prepare to do so.
I noticed that there was some talk in Congress the other day about the horrors of regimenting women against their will. I can't imagine that such a thing would even be suggested. On the other hand, in view of the numerous organizations which women are forming to help in the defense program and the many letters which they write stating their wish to be of use, I would not be much surprised if the Congressmen found that there were a good many women less afraid of regimentation than there were of finding themselves useless and unprepared for any eventuality.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
