
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—Yesterday was a most gorgeous day. We could almost feel spring coming to Washington. One snatches at all these pleasures while one can, because it is difficult to avoid the thought that such days may also bring us many unpleasant experiences.
I went to the YWCA for a meeting of the Girl Reserves yesterday afternoon, and then to a reception at Mrs. Henry Morgenthau, Jr.'s, house. In the evening we all went to the last session of the institute sponsored by the International Student Service. Today I have been happy to see some of our friends at luncheon, tea and supper.
There is a bulletin from the College of the City of New York, which contains two interesting lists of books on the present crisis. They are entitled "What We Are Fighting For" and "What We Are Fighting Against." These lists are prepared by Dr. William Bradley Otis, Professor of English, in an effort to provide an understanding of the present situation and are issued by the College's civilian defense council.
They are certainly interesting lists. We can all keep busy for a long while if we undertake to read all the books mentioned, though there are a few with which we may already be familiar. Surprisingly enough, I find that those I know best are in the column of "What We Are Fighting For",," so I shall have to do some reading on "What We Are Fighting Against."
The Departmentdepartment stores in New York City, and I imagine others all over the country, are going to save us a great deal of trouble. I have a letter telling me they will put up packages, after consulting the authorities in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Forces, which will contain things needed by the men that they will really enjoy receiving.
The idea behind the drive is very practical, because we civilians sometimes forget that it is not just our most intimate family that we might now and then remember in camp. There are other boys whom we know only slightly, who might be glad to get a package and have the fun of a surprise. So, when you see these packages, remember they are put there for your use and, if you can do so, send one to some service manserviceman.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
