
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Wednesday—One afternoon last week I spent three hours at Vassar College. I have been down often during their Summer Institute. But this session was particularly interesting to me because a group of Chinese women, now in attendance, had charge of the afternoon program.
Five women recited some nursery rhymes, each one in her own particular Chinese dialect. A very interesting and artistic family had come up from New York City for the day. The young lady, who had danced with the Ballet Russe, combined some of the charm and grace of the Chinese with the expert toe-dancing of the Russian ballet, and we enjoyed her greatly. The boy, who is only 15, had a children's book on sale, written by his mother and illustrated with the most delightful pictures, which all children will adore. Under our eyes, this boy did two drawings, one of which depicted three entrancing cherubs. You smiled when you looked at them, and I was delighted when he presented them to me as a gift for a grandchild.
Some of the older children at the Institute were allowed to watch and listen to the afternoon program. Afterwards tea and Chinese rice cakes were served to us all, and the children especially enjoyed this part of the entertainment!
In the Euthenics Institute, each participating individual or family group must learn a great deal about co-operationcooperation, and many of the things of value in a family group must also have a bearing on the family's life in the community.
I see in the papers every day that here and there the sale of E bonds has lagged, and I wonder if more places in the states could not copy a plan which apparently has been very successful in New York City. The Mayor has just presented a $100 bond to four different people. These bonds are awards known as the Sachs E Bond Awards, and the four recipients are the champion "Big Four" E bond salesmen. Mrs. Anne Reben of the Bronx, came out tops, having sold $569,650 worth. She is a housewife. William S. Craven of Corona, N. Y.N.Y., sold $471,450 worth. He is an insurance man, so I do not think he deserves as much credit as the lady. Next we have a school boy and girl. Kevin O'Sullivan, aged 16, of Bayside, N. Y.N.Y., sold $129,750 worth, and Isabella Jena, aged 15, of Brooklyn, N. Y.N.Y., sold $25,068 worth.
I want to add my congratulations to the many which they have received, and I tell you about them here because the idea of rewarding the "Big Four" in various communities might be helpful. Buying bonds is an investment in which all of us want to share, not only because the bonds will be valuable to us in the future, but because it is one of the ways in which we can help our men overseas.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
