
                  
                     BostonBOSTON, Tuesday—After writing my column yesterday afternoon, I went over at 6:30 to the opening of the American Women's Voluntary Service Services' Club House. They have been given the use of Mrs. Sumner Welles' stable, and they are to use it for their activities.
I hope that the attendance at the opening means that they will have a large number of workers, because I feel sure that there is plenty for them to do. There are too few places in this city for the newcomers who are department workers, or for the influx of sightseers from the camps, etc., to meet in a congenial atmosphere.
After dinner, I went up to the Library of Congressto Congress to the opening of an exhibition of South American posters. A few of our own are also shown, but I do not think we have yet learned to use our best artists, so our posters do not seem to be quite as vivid and colorful as some of those from the South American countries.
I was struck by the fact that so many of them dealt with questions of social security, housing and youth activities. This exhibition will be open for two weeks and I hope a great many people will see it.
Back from the poster exhibit, I dressed for the train, then had a short talk with one of the assistant directors of Civilian Defense and, finally, Miss Thompson and I made the 11:50 train for Boston. We arrived here this morning and after breakfast at the Hotel Statler, drove out to Hingham with Mrs. Frances MacGregor. It is fun to be out in the country and to enjoy a change of scene even for a day.
I would hardly have come at the present time, if I had not broken this engagement when I went West right after Pearl Harbor. I have been able to do some of the things which I had to give up at that time, but I am afraid I shall never be able to catch up on others.
I listened to the President's message over the radio today and wished that I could be in two places at once. It is rather an interesting thing, when you are accustomed to watching a person speak, to hear him now and then over the radio, and to have an idea of how it seems to other people who never actually see the person face to face, even when they know his voice quite well and have listened to him many times on the air.
The war news seemed a little better last evening and for some reason we all seemed in a carefree mood at dinner. Perhaps I was just happy myself because I had talked to Franklin, Jr., and so imagined that everyone shared my mood.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
