
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday —Yesterday morning I spent very largely in doing the things which keep us in good marching order. I went to the dentist, and on the fly, I bought some birthday and Christmas presents for the coming year at one of these winter sales which one sees so widely advertised in January.
I reached Washington in time to greet with great pleasure, Admiral Halsey and Mrs. Halsey, one of the admiral's aides, Lieutenant William Kitchell, and two charming young ladies. I will never forget Admiral Halsey's hospitality to me, nor how grateful I was for his kindness and thoughtfulness at his headquarters in the South Pacific. I only wish there were some way of showing him in return, how much I enjoyed seeing him again. I hope that when the war comes to an end, we may have leisure and enthusiasm left to take some quiet pleasure in seeing again those who have evoked our admiration and respect but whom we do not see long enough at present fully to express our feelings.
Lieutenant Kitchell is married to a cousin of my daughter-in-law's. Since he had to give up his room to me on two occasions in New Caledonia, I have a special sense of gratitude to him. There is another young aide who is here with his wife, Lieutenant-Commander Douglas Moulton, who did not come yesterday, but whom I hope to see today. He travelled with me for quite a while. Travelling companions either become very obnoxious or very agreeable. In my case I have been fortunate, for I have always found them agreeable. So I look forward to seeing Lieutenant-Commander and Mrs. Moulton.
In the evening I went out to speak to the WavesWAVES at their head-quartersheadquarters in American University and we listened together to the President's speech. They have a glee club of WavesWAVES who sing delightfully and I wish we could have listened to them for a long time.
This morning I reread the President's message. The more I go over it, the more I realize that this is a restatement in more concrete terms, as far as the second bill of rights goes, of the objectives for our nation which we have been striving for since 1933. In the recommendations for measures to be framed by the Congress and passed, we find nothing new, only the same objectives which have been stated by the President in one way and another ever since this war began. As a nation, however, we have never really accepted the fact that this is a war of all the people and that the burden shall be equally carried by us all. Tomorrow I would like to write you a little more on this point.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE INC.)
