
                  WASHINGTON
                     —Today has been somewhat warmer in Washington and the sensation has probably been somewhat increased for us by the fact that the young girl in whom we have been interested has been rather hectically on our minds. She suddenly decided apparently, that a job which we said we would try to find in Arizona this winter, as the doctors recommended that climate for her, had been provided and she should start now though she had hardly returned the application blank which had been sent her!
To be suddenly faced with a young lady sitting in Washington demanding to be sent to Arizona with no visible means of support is some problem and a good part of our day has been spent canvassing what could be done under these circumstances. We think we have the solution—a job, some one to greet her when she arrives and the means of transportation. But, all this does not happen in a minute and the innocents who think it does are occassionally unwittingly annoying to their well wishers.
I read all the magazines that I could lay my hands on yesterday. In Scribners I found an article by Martha Buere
                   which entertained me greatly. She does the kind of research work which I wish more people did and I wanted to know much more about her adventures behind the doors of those for the most part, closed, white churches on village greens in New England, and at cross roads throughout the South and in the mountains.
Ernest Lindley's article in that same issue is thoughtful and stimulating. Morris Llewlyn Cook's article on Rural Electrification in the Survey was also very interesting and I read on and on.
In the evening the President and his party left and suddenly I realized that I was very tired—I might as well have been doing a hard day's work! All the result of that curious sense of tension which follows the President about. The moment he goes, the world around you lets down just as though they suddenly said there is nobody more to play up to, so let's be our real selves for a while.
On Saturday he asked Mrs. Scheider who was doing my column and she said: "Mrs. Roosevelt." His response was: "I meant to tell you I would be very glad to do it for her!" His offer was deeply appreciated and we want to pass it on to you so that you will realize what you missed, but we refused courteously and rapidly knowing if once it became the President's column we would lose our readers and that would be very sad.
