
                  
                     Warm Springs, GeorgiaWARM SPRINGS, Ga., Friday—Another lovely day. Shortly, we are going with the President to inspect the new school building and the new infirmary, where the patients needing hospital care are housed. Henry Toombs, the architect for all the new buildings here, must be proud of his latest achievements, for everyone who has seen them is so pleased with them.

                  TheThanksgivingThe Thanksgiving dinner last night and the entertainment furnished by the patients and the singers from Tuskegee Institute, were both excellent and enjoyed by all.
There is one change here which we, as a family, regret. My husband's valet who has been with him for the past eleven years, has had to retire because of illness and it seems particularly strange to be here without him. His wife, Mrs. MacDuffie, is still with us however, and tries to keep everything going just as usual. Daisy, the cook, always manages to come back for the President's visits, so we are sure of having good food.
The other day, in New York City, a most interesting woman, Miss Rachel Davis DuboisDuBois, came to see me. She, being a Quaker, decided twelve years ago that there was something wrong when children in her classes, because of their different racial and religious backgrounds, were made unhappy. She determined to find out how to correct adolescent persecution, and to foster understanding and appreciation among "the various cultural groups in the United States by showing how all the groups had helped to make our country what it is."
This first recognition of the Service Bureau for Intercultural Education has led to many things. Lately they have been asked by the Board of Education in New York City to introduce practical steps in the Board's plan for teaching the children tolerance and democracy. This beginning in New York City is pointing the way for other school systems throughout the country to do similar work.
The first step, of course, is to reach the teachers and through them to capture the children's imagination. To do that, all modern progressive methods are being used. Radio scripts and dramatic episodes are being published by the Bureau and even television will soon be called upon to contribute to this form of education.
The United States Department of Education, with the cooperation of the ServiceBureauService Bureau for Intercultural Education, put on a most interesting radio series last winter called: "Americans All, Immigrants All," which won the annual award of the Women's National Radio Committee as the most original program for 1938-1939.
The work of this committee is proceeding on constantly new and interesting lines which ought to help all of us to a greater appreciation of our democracy and fundamental principles which enter into its preservation.
(COPYRIGHT, 1939, by UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
