
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday—Since I have been here, I have tried to make up my mind which of the books accumulated during the winter I can pass on to the libraries and high schools in Hyde Park Village. There are certain books that I feel I want to keep indefinitely. However it seems selfish not to pass on a book so that others can read it, if one has enjoyed it and does not want to keep it permanently. Nevertheless, deciding what to keep is always difficult for me.
Since it rained Friday afternoon, it was not so difficult to decide to stay indoors, but yesterday and today the weather was so beautiful that it was a shame not to be out as much as possible. I walked around yesterday morning, looked at every plant and shrub, and was delighted to find that the little bit of carefully tended lawn in front of my porch and Miss Thompson's porch, really looks like a lawn, for the grass seems to be nice and thick and springy.
All kinds of birds chirp and call to each other in the early morning around my sleeping porch. The robin, whose nest was so near my bathroom window last year that I could never shut it, for fear of disturbing the mother bird, has not returned.
I love spring in the country and at last we have enough rain. Though the President is very anxious to discover whether his young trees have all survived the early spring drought, everything not newly planted seems to be unharmed and to have the most beautiful spring foliage.
Yesterday noon, I went to a well attended meeting held under the auspices of the National Vocational Guidance Association at the Franklin D. Roosevelt High School. A New York University group put on a skit about the "Follies" of guidance. It was most entertaining and I am sure those familiar with the field enjoyed it even more than I did, because some of the references seemed to afford them so much amusement.
From there I went to the lunch of the Dutchess County Democratic Clubs in Poughkeepsie, where Mrs. Charles Tillett, Vice-Chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Dean C. Mildred Thompson of Vassar and Miss Marion Dickerman spoke, and a very charming young woman sang.
I missed the first part of Dean Thompson's speech, but heard all the others and was very happy to see Mrs. Tillett for a few minutes. We were so grateful to her for taking the trouble to come from Charlotte, N. C., for this luncheon.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
