
                  
                     SeattleSEATTLE, Wash., Monday—I am waiting anxiously, like everybody else, for the answer from the German and Italian heads of state to the plea for peace made by the President of the United States. One cannot blame European countries if they are somewhat suspicious, but it seems to me there is more hope of a just consideration of the real difficulties facing various nations if people will sit down and discuss them before a war takes place. The bitterness of war colors whatever peace comes after it.
I think the very best passenger on our night flight across the Continent continent was a three-months-old baby. Nothing seemed to disturb the infant, who either slept, or lay placidly smiling at everybody as they went by. During the night, we changed planes at Billings, Montana, and the wind was blowing very hard. It may have been a little offshoot of the tornado in Oklahoma and the Southwest. Plenty of sand seemed to have been blown into the airport during the day, for I noticed windows, tables and counters all covered with dust.
The plane had been dark, so it was not until we were in the Billings airport, waiting to board the other plane, that I noticed a familiar face. Here, by strange coincidence, was the same gentleman who had travelled up with me when last I came to Seattle from Oakland, California. We had little time to talk, but he told me that he would be East in June to see his son graduate from M.I.T., so, perhaps, we will have an opportunity of seeing both of them at that time.
At 6:40 Sunday morning, we all sat at a counter in the Spokane airport, eating our breakfast. Orange juice is decidedly the most popular early morning drink. Only one of us ordered tomato juice. While I was waiting for my coffee, a gentleman came and sat on the stool beside me. His order was simple. Black coffee, nothing else. He drank two cups and asked me about the weather. He was bound for Portland and wasn't quite sure whether he trusted the size of the ship. It was a little smaller than the one we were travelling in to Seattle. I told him I hoped that the good weather we had had all the way across would hold for the rest of our journey, in which case I was sure he would find his quite comfortable. Air travel is certainly increasing in volume. The officials of the airlines tell me they have been carrying a full complement of passengers on nearly all of their trips.
Eleanor, Curtis and John greeted me at the airport at 8:45 a.m., and I divided the rest of the day between the hospital, and Anna and the baby, and the older children at home.
(Copyright, 1939, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
