
                  
                     Washington, D. C.WASHINGTON
                  —Before I begin on the various happenings of the last few days, let me mention for the benefit of mothers who may be searching for books to amuse the very small fry, that I came across a book called: "Margo, The Horse Who Wouldn't Stay On The Merry-Go-Round." I think any child will find it pure joy. It is illustrated by Sugar Poling and the story is written by Ginny Ryan, both from West Virginia. These two young women are just breaking into this field of children's books, I believe, and I hope they continue with the same success, for I think many youngsters are going to enjoy them.
Yesterday was an extraordinarily busy day. The Arthurdale, West Virginia,Virginia Advisory Committee met with me in the morning and a group of Southern young people gathered together to tell me some of their plans. They are working on some of the questions brought up in the Birmingham Conference on Human Welfare.
One of those small complications which occasionally arise in families occurred yesterday, both my husband and I invited a complete luncheon party and so we had to use both dining rooms. There are moments when the added space in the White House is most useful.
After lunch I had to make a short transcript for an infantile paralysis radio program and, as I went out of the White House, I found a number of photographers standing in their usual places waiting for the Vice-President to come out from a conference with the President. I went over to the studio and came back and they were still standing there. I could only think how grateful I was that my assignments did not require so much standing around in the cold waiting for those in high places.
All the gentlemen in the house went off to the Gridiron party.party Saturday night and we held, as usual, what we call the Gridiron Widow'sWidows party. I suppose one should not praise one's own party, but I think it is permissible to say that the entertainment provided by one's guests was really very entertaining. This year the newspaper girls carried the main burden and their skits were delightful. Miss Vandy Cape and Miss Sydney Thompson, who came down as my guests, also gave us the benefit of their professional talent.
After supper I always call on certain of my guests to say a few words and last night they responded in a particularly witty and amusing way. Altogether, you will probably gather that I enjoyed my own party and I hope that everyone else had an equally good time.
A ride this morning and a regretful good-bye to all of my house guests. This afternoon I go to a party for crippled children given by the Kiwanis Club of Washington, and then to the Washington Symphony Orchestra Concert.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
