
                  WASHINGTON
                     —Last night I went over with my husband to Baltimore, leaving here at eight-thirty. Quite a group of state police accompanied us and we went rather noisily through the city and the countryside. For some perfectly unknown reason, perhaps the spring weather, I was so sleepy I could hardly keep awake and I told my husband that it was a tribute to his power of speaking that I did not fall asleep during the meeting! The lights were all turned on him, and of course that meant on all of us as well during the whole of his speech which was rather trying and extremely warm. When the meeting was over, I went down to the basement of the Armory where the dance was held and wandered around for a few minutes. Everyone is very proud of the Armory because it is one which was burned down, and rebuilt partly by F.E.R.A.FERA labor and partly by W.P.A.WPA Labor. It certainly is a fine buildinhbuilding now and one of the things that Baltimore has gained through the work of the unemployed.
We got back home about a quarter past one and I could hardly keep awake long enough to undress and seven-thirty this morning seemed about two minutes after one fifteen a.m.
At breakfast my brother and our second son, Elliott, and I had a long discussion on various topics suggested by my husband's speech and after the usual morning round, I got out at a quarter past eleven on horse back and stayed out until one o'clock which was far too long as far as my work was concerned, but very pleasant.
On returning, I found that a little friend of ours who had spent nearly a year at the Orthopaedic Hospital in New York undergoing operation and lying in a plaster cast, had come down with her brother to see Washington. We kept these two youngsters for lunch and then had them shown the White House. She is a very bright little thing and making up quickly the work which she lost at school through illness. Sometimes I wonder if hard times do not give children some compensation in character which they develop. I have a feeling that this little girl is going to do something with her life largely because the first few years have been such hard ones!
