
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—Yesterday morning there came to my office in Civilian Defense Headquarters, three women representing the National Federation of Music Clubs. They told me of the work they are doing for defense, and what they have accomplished is really astounding. Through their state and national organizations, they have already given phonographs to every camp. They provide records and their members volunteer to teach choral singing, to play for entertainments and to give concerts in various camps and nearby places where the boys congregate on leave.
Here is an organization which really has something to offer in the way of entertainment and has quietly gone aboutsaboutitits work and already accomplished a great deal. I hope the members of this federation will enroll in the various volunteer bureaus in their vicinity as soon as these are set up, and will continue their work just as they are now doing.
Yesterday evening, I had the great pleasure of having Dr. and Mrs. Frederick M. Davenport here at dinner with a number of other guests. After dinner, a number of Dr. Davenport's government interns, with a few other young people, came in for the evening. We had the movie "How Green Was My Valley".." If you have not seen it, do not miss it. It is one of the most moving, stirring stories, and as applicable to life today in similar situations and environments, as it was in Queen Victoria's Dayday.
Our guests began to leave us this morning at 7:15. The sky was gray and the rain fell to chime in with our mood of regret at seeing them all go.
I have had a profitable day reading the papers, catching up on my mail, entertaining a few guests at lunch, and spending some time in my Christmas closet, which is always a joy at this season. The President has been bothered by a slight attack of sinus. Some other people in the house seem to be suffering from colds, so none of us went out all day long.
I think we all felt a weight off our minds and hearts yesterday when we knew the coal strike was to be arbitrated. I know what a relief it is for the men to go back to work. I can notcannot bear to see situations where there is shooting. Many people in this country must have felt grateful that all will work together and two different groups will not line up against each other.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
