
                  WASHINGTON, Thursday
                     —We had five nice young people dine with us last night. Three of them from Arthurdale, two of them down here for the Boy Scout Jamboree—one of these from New York, the other from California. After dinner I had a movie—"Wee Willie Winkie",Winkie," with Shirley Temple. It was very charming and no one could help but like "Private Winkie".Winkie."
In the newsreel which they showed us first were the pictures of Franklin, jJunior's and Ethel's wedding, and that young couple do take nice photographs, which is a blessing I think as long as to have to be photographed!
I breakfasted alone on the porch this morning; attended to a few household things which had to be arranged before I really bid goodbye to them for an extended period. Then at ten-twenty, my husband and I, with Commissioner Allen of the District of Columbia, set out to pass down through the line of Boy Scouts on Constitution Avenue. It was really an impressive sight, and I never saw a healthier looking group of men and boys. I was not surprised to have Dr. West tell me this afternoon that they had asked the Public Health Service for the health statistics of a number of cities of twenty-five thousand for this period, and the Boy Scout encampment of twenty-five thousand boys stands way above any city of that size.
Twice in that long line I noticed Boy Scouts in chairs, evidently physically handicapped in some way, and yet they looked strong and well and were evidently bona-fide scouts. This struck me as particularly significant for the organization does not serve only the physically fit, but can help to bring the handicapped to better physical and mental condition.
After lunch I drove around the Camp and ended up with a visit to the Dutchess County, New York, Scouts who brought and erected in their camp a replica of the front of my mother-in-law's home in Hyde Park. It is beautifully done, and I think the boys deserve a great deal of credit. I was glad to hear that they had had a great many visitors and much praise for this project.
The League of Women Shoppers in New York, which is an organization to study working conditions in various industries and try to improve them, has sent me a notice of a pamphlet called: "Consider the Laundry Workers",Workers," which they are getting out on laundry workers in New York City. This pamphlet is a study of conditions in New York City, but they say that the same conditions prevail in many other places. It seems to me that by furnishing authentic information this organization is doing a service to industry, the public and to labor. As laundriedlaundries are so closely connected with our homes, I imagine many people will read this pamphlet.
On the midnight tonight, Mrs. Scheider and I are off for Hyde Park but I shall be writing to you every day, so while officially I'll be "off the record",record," I'll still be personally on the record!
