
                  NEW YORK, Thursday
                     —It was almost cold on the lawn yesterday afternoon and I was rather worried that some of the veterans might be really uncomfortable, which is a strange fear to have in Washington in the month of May! However, the sun remained with us and they all gathered around the band- standbandstand where the Marine Band played and they listened to a short program of songs given by five students from the Bethune-Cookman Negro College for teachers in Daytona Beach, Florida. My husband was particularly pleased that this group could sing "Old Man River" for him, as he asked one group to sing it not long ago and they were unable to do so.
Little Chandler watched the proceedings from the south porch with a great deal of interest, and when we started to drive down to hear the singing, we invited her to join us which she did with alacrity, standing up between us on the seat of the car and waving at everyone in friendly fashion. Her real thrill came when she suddenly saw another little girl on the lawn. I think she felt that the world was made up entirely of grown-ups and was glad to see something of her own size.
Such a nice youngster from business school was on the air with me last night, Kate Speicher, by name. I shall be surprised if she does not get on in whatever line of work she undertakes because she is not only wide awake and alive, but has a pleasant, cheerful personality.
Mrs. Scheider and I came on to New York by train immediately after the broadcast and this morning I visited my mother-in-law who hopes to get her plaster cast off early next week and go up to Hyde Park . She has no complaint about any discomfort, but she is vociferous in her disgust at not being able to get to the country. I also saw my cousin, Mrs. Henry Parish, who leaves next week for her summer in Newport, Rhode Island. Then I visited one other friend in the hospital .
I did some rather hurried shopping, a hurried lunch and now we are on our way back to Washington.
These train trips are wonderful opportunities for accomplishing work! Except for dinner in the dining car last night, during which I had to sign a few autographs, there was not a single interruption from the time we went back to our drawing room until we reached New York three and a half hours later.
I am happy to see that the censorship bill in New York State has been vetoed and the language in which Governor Lehman couched his veto message seems to me altogether admirable. No one can quarrel with those who "desire to maintain the theatre on a proper moral plane",plane," but we are seeing too much in the world today of an effort to regulate too minutely by law the lives and morals of whole groups of people.
