
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—Yesterday evening we were shown a film taken by men in North Africa who must have been in the heart of battle, and sometimes nearer enemy lines than their own. It was an inspiring film because it showed the French troops passing in review before the Americans, and later our own boys gallantly fighting. But it is also a heart rendingheart-rending picture, for it included the inevitable costs of victory, wounded and dead men.
In the White House there is no chance to forget that one is facing a cruel and terrible war and that victory is only obtained at a heavy price. I hope that all the people in this country will work as hard for the establishment of friendship and good understanding among the nations of the world in the future, as they have to work now to achieve victory in the war.
Every time I see a thoughtless statement about our allies or about our future aims in world organization, I tremble not for the harm it may do other nations, but for the harm it may do us. We are only a small minority in North and South Africa of the population of the world. It behooves us to look for ways in which we can make friends with the other nations, for the results of futurewarsfuture wars, if we do not prevent them, will be disastrous to all of us.
I am honorary chairman of the National Advisory Committee of the Campfire Girls, as I am also honorary chairman of the Girl Scouts. Both of these organizations have very similar aims and I have long felt that it would be valuable if they could work together, but such an understanding has never seemed possible.
This month I wish to salute the 321,000young321,000 young girls who belong to the Campfire Organization. They are celebrating their 31st birthday. If more leaders could be found, I believe they could increase their membership, for every young girl I know is anxious to do something in the war effort.
Their annual birthday project has been named "Serve By Saving," and they have become "skilled in the saving of money to buy War Stamps and Bonds, in the conservation of clothes, food and home equipment, health and salvageofsalvage of essential materials." Their activities are many. Some of them are directly connected with war service.
For instance, they act as messengers for civilian defense and Red Cross organizations. Through home activities, they also free older people for essential war work. I want to congratulate them on their achievements, and I hope this week will bring them a sense of accomplishment and participation in the effort made by the whole country.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
