
                  We got off the train in Dayton yesterday morning at 7:45.
I know nothing bleaker than meeting people at that hour of the morning, and I was terribly sorry for the Mayor, the head of the chamberChamber of Commerce and the ladies of the committee, who had to get up that early to be on hand. However, they seemed quite cheerful and were very kind.
The usual photographs were taken and then we were kindly and very considerately left alone in the Hotel Van Cleve, where we bathed and breakfasted in peace and quiet.
Mrs. Scheider and I lunched alone and had a very friendly, chatty boy waiting on us who, I think, was really grieved that we did not eat a long and elaborate meal.
Two directors of the WPA who work in the city came in for a few minutes and at 2 o'clock I drove out to the Wright Air Field, an Army field where all planes are tested before they are used in the service. The planes are beautiful things in themselves, and the field is a grand one with no obstructions around it.
They showed me the latest Douglas bomber and, like all other things military, the remarkable ingenuity of the machinery made for destruction, filled me with awe. I hope the day will come when all that inventing and mechanical genius will be used for other purposes.
From there we drove to the Veteran's Hospital where 2,600 veterans are cared for. A few of them were civil war veterans, a larger number of them Spanish-American War veterans, but the great majority World War veterans. I did not have time to see the whole hospital but visited a few nurses and yeomenettes and saw one patient, who is a World War nurse I have known for some time, Miss Mary Garnett Moore.
I stopped for a moment at the district office of the WPA, which directs the work of four counties, and then came back to the hotel to meet Mr. S. B. Weston, Youth Administrator for the State, and Mr. Bruce Musick, director for the district.
We visited a boys' club where a number of National Youth Administration people are at work, chiefly in supervising young people in athletics and arts and crafts occupations.
Then I went back to the hotel and in a few minutes had to dress and go to a dinner given for Judge Florence Allen before my speech.
(Copyright. 1936, United Feature Syndicate.)
