
                  NEW YORK
                     —I went last night to the first showing of "Anthony Adverse" as a movie. When we arrived some very beautiful movies of Hawaii were being shown, and they might have been the background for some the later scenes in the new picture.
I think it is a most difficult thing to take any book and choose the scenes which are the most important, not only to produce a dramatic success, but to preserve the spirit of the story. In this case, I think the scenes are very lovely. I liked the little boy who played Anthony and many of the other parts are well acted. I think there is some confusion in telling the story, and a certain rollicking spirit of adventure which breathes in the book is missing in the characters as you see them on the screen, particularly in Anthony himself.
I slept well on my porch last night, looking at the tops of the trees which make such a thick shade for the little back yard below us. In spite of all the building going on around us, which we hope is an indication of returning good times, we had a very peaceful cup of morning coffee on our porch with Miss Esther Lape who came down from her apartment above to join us before she went to work.
We went up town a little after nine and I spend a nice, lazy hour having my hair washed. I always wish I had been born with naturally curly hair and that when the washing process was over, I could simply run a comb through it and find it falling into nice natural waves as is the case with some of my friends!
At eleven-thirty I reached Democratic Headquarters at the Biltmore, and was completely mystified by the numbers of policemen standing around. I went upstairs to meet some people who had come from out of town, and on coming out at two found a crowd and even more police! At last I discovered the reason, the Japanese officers were lunching at the Biltmore!
While at headquarters Mr. Early called up from Washington to tell us the sad news of Secretary Dern's death. When Mr. Dern came to Washington a few years ago, he seemed to me at least, a strong, well man. He has been ill for some time and I am deeply sorry for Mrs. Dern and all his family.
Soon we start on our drive to Hyde Park where we have promised to be home in time for supper with the little children.
