
                  WASHINGTON, April 24
                     —I have just finished shaking hands with twenty-four hundred members of the Daughters of the American Revolution. This is the largest group of ladies which comes here in the spring, but it is not the only group that has been here to—daytoday. This morning after a short and rather early ride, I received the Arboretum Club of Massachusetts, three hundred strong, and a small group of teachers from Boston, and also the mother of a friend of one of my son's.

                  Mrs. Scheider and I were alone for lunch to-daytoday except for one friend, a man who is one of those rare people quite willing to give of himself unstintingly in the interest of others. At the moment he is doing rather a hard job and yet he seems to keep both his head and his temper under rather trying circumstances. I always wonder what the quality is which makes it possible for an individual to be deeply interested in something and still not feel too personal about it. Most of us tend to make of whatever we are doing something so much our own that we can notcannot evaluate our work. I have a feeling that this man is selfless enough to even recognize his own shortcomings. A rare quality indeed!
Such a beautiful day, and as we continue to have crowds of visitors in Washington, I am more than glad to have the weather favorable, for sight—seeingsightseeing is far less agreeable on rainy days and it is nice to have more and more people coming to see their capital city. Some oneSomeone said to me this morning, people must have more money to spend or they would not be coming in such tremendous numbers!

                  The President-elect of Cuba and Senora de Gomez, the Cuban Ambassador; the Under—Secretary of State of Cuba; Dr. Julio Morales Coello and Dr. Francisco Arango Romero, Secretary to the President—elect have just had tea with us as unfortunately we had to give up having them for dinner and the night on Tuesday. They were very delightful guests and I gasped with astonishment when Senora de Gomez told me that she had three daughters, the eldest one seventeen years old. She looks herself not more than twenty—five. Some women must have the secret for remaining young!
