
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—The other day I went to look at the first permanent hotel for government women workers. It is simple but very attractive and well placed. Meridian Park is on one side, so that the dining room, lounge and garden have a pleasant outlook. The rooms are not large but they seem to have possibilities of comfortable arrangement. If the prices can be kept low, I think this will be the beginning of a great improvement in the housing of single women who are employed by the Government.
I went last night to a dinner given by the Washington Workers Workers' Education Committee. This committee is part of the group which sponsors summer schools for women workers. Miss Hilda Smith has long been interested in it, even before her experience with WPA workers service projects. She presided last night and the principal speaker was Mr. R. H. Tawney, President of the British Workers Workers' Educational Association.
There were more than two hundred at the dinner and we adjourned for the speeches to the auditorium, which filled up rapidly, even in the gallery. I was much interested in Mr. Tawney's account of the influence which graduates of his classes had had in the labor movement, and particularly in his statement that workers' education in England has had the support of the government in such tangible form as actual cash appropriations.
This is, of course, probably more than we can hope for here immediately. In any case, I think it is wise for the workers themselves to recognize the importance of this educational movement and to give it their support. They must control the curriculum, because no one else can really know their needs. Once they have established the importance of this movement, they can apply for government support and integrate their work with the whole educational setup of the country.
I have just finished Louis Bromfield's new novel, "Until The Day Break." It is a real picture of how the little people in occupied countries carry on and resist regardless of what is done to break their spirit, and how useless it really is to try to conquer people by terror.
The love story, which must be part of any novel, is rather unusual. Two people, both of whom were denied many things in their early lives, evolve before you through their love and hate and make their contribution to the cause of freedom.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
