
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday—After my broadcast last night, we went over and had dinner in one of the restaurants off the plaza in Rockefeller Center. It was nice and cool and we were all very warm so we had a light dinner and then proceeded to the theatre. The theatre was air conditioned so we laughed in comfort through "Brother Rat".." It is very well cast and the boys really look like boys and they acted their parts so naturally that we almost forgot we are not living through scenes in real life. The wonder to me has always been that boys ever graduate from anywhere, but when it comes to a military academy, that is just beyond belief. I imagine that nearly all masters of schools must firmly shut their eyes to a great many things which they know go on around them, remembering the days of their own youth and the fact that youth must be foolhardy and recklessness is simply a sign of the undergraduate age!
We arrived in Washington this morning to find a breeze blowing even though the atmosphere is heavy. My husband seemed very well when I went in to see him. I had gone for a swim and was therefore very late for breakfast so expected to spend only a minute saying "Good morning".." He launched into an explanation of a point which I brought up however and there I stayed for fifteen minutes, dashing down eventually to the porch and my breakfast tray, where my brother shortly joined me.
The rest of the morning I worked at my desk except for a brief interval when I dashed over to try to get in between callers to ask my husband a forgotten question. Governor Winship and Mr. Ernest Gruening were in his office and so I sat in Mr. MoIntyre'sMcIntyre's office and talked to a few governors who were also waiting to see my husband. I made my visit brief and dashed back to the White House for my desk looked exactly as though some one had dumped the contents of one of the large post office vans on top of it. I always have a passion for getting it all straightened out and piling up the letters in little piles so I can work through them systematically; number one group -- to be attended to immediately; number two group -- bills to be paid; number three group -- letters to be dictated a little later on; number four group -- letters to be written long hand, and sad to say, this is the group that waits longest for attention. I carry those letters around in my brief case for weeks!
At four o'clock this afternoon Miss LeHand is to receive a degree and we are all attending. Later on a few people come in for tea, and at seven o'clock Mrs. Scheider and I will take to the train again, going to Wallace, North Carolina for their strawberry festival and a visit to the Penderlea HomsteadsHomesteads which I will tell you about tomorrow.
