
                  WASHINGTON, Sept. 19
                     —Everyone should be a little ill now and then in order to be reminded of how very kind and thoughtful the rest of the world is to those of us who fall by the way side. Also, it serves to jog you up on little things which may be enjoyed in bed!
Being taken care of by Navy doctors is a new experience to me, and so I was amused this morning to be told that yesterday was pretty "rough sailing". I had decided myself that this "Land of the Counterpane" was not very pleasant yesterday, but today we are all agreed that the world is somewhat calmer!
Perhaps we are being effectedaffected by the hurricane. What terrible visitations of nature these things are, and what an endless trail of human misery they leave behind them in the loss of homes and boats and men.
I was truly grieved to read of Dr. Jean-Baptiste Charoot
                  's loss. He has always been an interesting figure and France and her people will mourn.
Last night my poor maid received word that her boy was having hemmorageshemmorhages, so she telephoned Mrs. Scheider as she did not want to disturb me. Mrs. Scheider assured her that I would want her to go home at once, so her brother drove her down into Virginia last night. One of the tragedies of the colored race is the prevelance of tuberculosis and their seeming inability to fight it. In this case it developed when the boy was fairly young and he was sent to a sanitarium. His mother has very little hope that he will really recover even if this attack isn't fatal.
I have just been asked what flavor I would like in jello, and the nurse seemed somewhat surprised that I had no preference. Not having eaten anything but liquids since Monday, makes me somewhat indifferent to the flavor of anytyinganything! I can not bear to drink anything, the taste of which stays in my mouth for a long time.
The skies are gray today, and when they telephoned from Boston this morning they said it was pouring there, so I fear the Harvard exercises if any part of them were scheduled to be held out of doors must have been changed. The President will be back here tomorrow morning, much to my distress, for I wanted him to stick to his original plans and go straight to Hyde Park for there is nothing he can do here. He feels he will be more satisfied if he returns and goes up a little later.
