
                  
                     Hutchinson, KansasHUTCHINSON, Kan., Thursday—We reached my son's house yesterday morning so early that the entire family had finished breakfast and felt that the day was already well advanced, when my small grandson demanded that we go for a walk. We looked at our watches and found that it was just 8:30. We finally did take a walk in the warm sunshine, even though our clothes on this trip are not very well adapted to rough roads or fields.
The weather was too lovely, however, to stay indoors. After an early lunch, we drove to Denton, where we went directly to the Texas State College for Women. President Hubbard took us to a little chapel in the woods which they were dedicating. This is an NYA project, the chapel was built by NYA boys and the decorations are being done by the art students in the college. One stained glass window is already finished. Each one of these windows is to show some form of service performed by women. The window over the altar is to glorify motherhood with the Madonna in the center, and the rose window above the door will contain Texas wildflowers.
The setting of the chapel in a grove of trees on a little hill is very charming. An atmosphere of peace surrounded it yesterday, in spite of the crowd of people who had come to the dedication ceremony. The most moving part of this was a little speech given by one of the boys who worked on the chapel. I could not help thinking of the spirit of the master craftsmen of old who devoted years of their lives to building the beautiful cathedrals which we visit today in the countries across the water. Perhaps some of their spirit has descended upon our boys.
A group of farm security people waited for me afterwards to present me with a magazine which contains photographs of what they accomplished over a period of four years. I think this rehabilitation of farm people gives the county agents and the farm security representatives more satisfaction than any other type of government work, because the benefits are so tangible in the families they serve. I had the pleasure of seeing a group which had come some 265 miles from Lockhart, Texas.
The girls who are taking the home economics course arranged the decorations and served dinner. I admired the charming table just as I had when I was here before. They do marvelous things with the butter, evolving a beautiful yellow rose reposing on green leaves which one is almost loathe to eat.
After the evening lecture, we left at once for the train and this morning encountered our first real delay, arriving three-quarters of an hour late in Newton, Kansas. Our hostess, who had driven over here from Hutchinson, had to wait for us. As there was no diner, we had to be content with someone's kind though thoughtin putting on board for us some bottles of milk, graham crackers and apples. I don't think Miss Thompson thinks cold milk takes the place of hot coffee so, as soon as we arrived here, our kind hostess served us coffee.
(COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.,)
