
                  
                           HYDE PARK, N.Y.
                        
                     —Some oneSomeone sent me a cartoon not long ago of a gentleman sitting in a newspaper office at the telephone, looking extremely wild because I was reporting that nothing of interest had happened for my column that day. I doubt if the cartoonist knew that I myself am often looking forward to a day when I will do nothing and therefore have nothing to chronicle, as far as goings and comings are concerned. It will be interesting to see whether one's mind stagnates as well as one's body!
This Memorial Day and Sunday in the country has had comesome activity. The skies were gray and it was more like autumn than summer, but that made it all the pleasanter for exercise. After going for a hike, I had a glimpse of my grand children who are delighted at the prospect of having the horses and their own dogs here by the end of the week when they return for good to Hyde Park. I sat for sometime with my mother-in-law who is going to sit up tomorrow and who insists that the next day she is going down stairs in a wheel chair to dinner.
The doctor tells her she is a most cheerful patient and taking this whole thing very well. And she, with the philosophy which comes from her early up bringingupbringing up, I am sure, insists that she is quite comfortable and that she has her lovely trees to look at, and an aurioleoriole came twice yesterday and perched on the branch of a tree outside her window, just so she could have a good look at himehim!
She told me once that in her youth her father used to say when they complained, "aAll weather is good weather",weather," and when they said that they had not had time to do a certain thing, one of her aunts always remarked: "You had all the time there was."
A good basis for philosophy in later life.
I read with joy Mr. Heywood Broun's column on tolerence. Nothing is more irritating than some one who agrees with everyone they happen to be thrown with. Once called "being all things to all men",men," but I think some of us have found that  you cannot be all things to all men and remain anything yourself. 
So more power to you Mr. Broun. May you always be sure of what you think and continue to be as courageous in expressing it! My trouble is that I am not always sure of what I think.

                  A peaceful Sunday in Hyde Park, and back to Washington on the midnight train.
