
                  
                     Los AngelesLOS ANGELES, CalCalif., Sunday—The flight up to San Francisco on Friday afternoon was very smooth and pleasant. One of the things I look forward to most is a view over the bay from the window of the Mark Hopkins Hotel. I think they know how much I enjoy it, because I am always given a room from which I can see the water.
The Democratic State Vice-Chairman, Mrs. Porter, and her assistant, Miss Bauer, came to see me, and I enjoyed my chat with them very much. After the lecture in the evening, Mr. Paul Posz took us to Judge and Mrs. William Denman's house. I had the pleasure of meeting the various South and Central American consuls with their wives, and the Chinese Consul and his wife. It was a very pleasant party and it was a real surprise to me to find that it was near 1:00 when we left.
Saturday morning, we visited Mayris Chaney's hat shop and bought a hat or two, which has become a habit when we come to San Francisco. Then we went to Chinatown to do a little shopping and stop at the committee headquarters to buy a ticket for the rice festival.
This festival must be extremely colorful and interesting. The proceeds this year will be given to Chinese orphans and refugees. Two charming girls sold me my pin, and I lost my heart completely to a little five-year-old, who looked very dignified and charming in her long Chinese gown.
Later I visited a Chilean cargo ship, which was manned by their Navy. On it some 32 Chilean ensigns are getting their first naval experience. It was interesting to find two young men named Delano among the ensigns. The Delanos in this country have some relationship to them I think, at least my husband always claims it.
Some friends lunched with me and then, before we knew it, we were on our afternoon plane headed for Los Angeles. Just before 7:00 oclocko'clock, we reached the Melvyn Douglas home. I found Mrs. Douglas busy with twenty Democratic women discussing their work, so I had an opportunity for a short chat with them also.
The view from this house is beautiful at all times. Last night, the dark hills on either side framed the many colored lights of the city far below. This morning, what fascinated me was the swimming pool, practically outside my bedroom door. The patio is closed in by a steep mountainside covered with shrubs and flowers, and makes me feel completely cut off from the rest of the world.
It isn't just the beauty of the surroundings which makes it wonderful to be in this house. There is an atmosphere which only the human spirit can create. The baby, a sweet little fair-haired girl, handed me a bunch of flowers with grace. Everyone seems friendly, because the two people who make this home are great people.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
