
                  
                     Los AngelesLOS ANGELES, Cal., Friday—I didn't have time to tell you yesterday of two things which I greatly rejoiced in San Francisco. First I paid a visit to the Fair. The grounds are so beautiful, with flowers blooming and color and water used to make the scene estheticallyaesthetically satisfying at every turn. I could not bear to miss the art exhibit here and enjoyed seeing some of my old friends from Italian galleries. There were many other famous paintings I had never seen before except in reproductions, so this was a delightful experience.
We also went through the part of the building which is given over to Pacific cultures. We enjoyed the Chinese and Japanese exhibitions and many of the interesting things from the Pacific Islands. Some of the northern islands have much work that is reminiscent of our own Eskimos in Alaska. After seeing their exhibits, I wanted very much to revisit our American Indian courts in the Federal Building, for that made such a deep impression on me when I last was here, but time would not permit.
In the evening, we went up into a room at the very top of our hotel and, from one of the windows, saw the lights of the fair grounds sparkling below us like so many brilliant jewels. A walk around this room gives you a beautiful view of the entire city at night. Out of my room at the hotel yesterday morning, I stepped out on the balcony to view a lovely panorama. The clouds were rolling away, the bay lay below me and one white gleaming building stood out as the shonesun shone on it. San Francisco is a beautiful city.
Yesterday morning two old friends, Mrs. Denman and Mrs. McCauley came to see me. Then we went out to visit Mayris Chaney's hat shop, where I bought myself two winter hats. This is a new venture for her, but I think she ought to be successful. It is always fun buying things which you feel are made especially for you, and in a shop like this it can be done. Afterwards we took a hurried trip to Chinatown and went to Gump's especially to see the miniature silver display. Any child would fall in love with these exquisite copies of beautiful silver tea sets and full dinner services.
After lunch with James and some of his friends, he and I started back to Los Angeles by air. He had flown up in the morning to join me, which was very nice for it added a good deal of time to our visit. I am staying with him in his charming little house here. It was pleasant yesterday afternoon to see some old friends, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Storm, who are now out here working with James for Mr. Goldwyn. I leave this morning to fly toward Texas.
(COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
