
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—Friday afternoon was comparatively quiet, only two short appointments and then, from 4:00 to 5:00, the Cabinet ladies joined with me in entertaining at a tea for the wives of the members of the House of Representatives. The sky had cleared and we had hoped to be in the garden but the grass was still too wet, so we enjoyed our refreshments indoors and looked at the roses and the trees from the porch and the windows.
We had "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" shown after dinner. One of our guests had not seen it, nor had John and I. My husband had seen it, but he insisted on remaining for this second showing. In the middle of the performance, Elliott came in and took the President to his study, but after a few minutes they returned. Elliott left for the night plane for Fort Worth and whispered as he went out: "I'll be back again on Monday."
All this was a bit disturbing, but nevertheless we all enjoyed "Snow White" very much. I have never seen anything as enchanting as the animals, the color is beautiful and so is the music. However, I can quite understand why little children find the old witch and Snow White's flight through the forest a rather terrifying spectacle. This, however, is not the part of the picture which remained in my mind. Late at night I found myself thinking of the little Princess at the well with her doves and the funny little men being kissed on the tops of their heads. Mr. Walt Disney certainly has an enchanting imagination and I hope he does many more such films.
Saturday morning, John, Anne and I had another ride together. At noon we all drove down to Annapolis for the Navy-Harvard- Pennsylvania boat races. I could only stay for lunch because I had promised to receive a very charming Swedish lady, Dr. Hannah Rydh, who was passing through Washington on her way to lecture at Sweet Briar College, Virginia, tonight. She is the wife of the governor of one of the northern provinces in Sweden. In addition to her official duties, she is a well-known professor of archeology, writes and lectures, and is president of the largest woman's club in Sweden.
Dr. Rydh told me that one of the largest match companies in Sweden sells a special box of matches for which people pay just a trifle more than they do for the ordinary variety. The profit goes to children's welfare work throughout the country and a special percentage is divided up according to sales in the different provinces. They organize to sell as many of these boxes as possible, in order that their charities may be well supported.
Then I went to the Gray Ladies Annual Garden Party in the garden at Walter Reed Hospital. I returned to a quiet dinner on the porch with a view of the Washington Monument gleaming white in the darkness.
Today is a quiet day, for I am the only occupant of the second floor of the White House—something which happenes to me very rarely. Those who have been off on the "Potomac" will be back tonight in time for our usual informal supper party.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
