
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—In none of my columns since I came home, or
while I was on my last trip, have I told you of many letters that came
to me from ladies in various islands and in the South and Central
American countries. Some of these ladies were writers, some of them
ladies in the woman suffrage movement of their countries, some of them
were leaders in the organized labor movement.
All of them wanted me to express to the women of the United States
their admiration for the way in which our women are contributing to
the war effort, and almost invariably they added that they hoped for
closer cooperation with the women of this country in the future, and a
better understanding on our part of their problems.
Many of the women with whom I talked were working on problems of
nutrition and better child care. That is a natural outlet, because
families are large and women have lived much within the walls of their
own homes. The war is drawing them towards a point of view which has
long been ours—that interest in our own homes leads us finally to
interest in our communities and in our government.
The three ladies with whom I spent two full days were Brazilian
ladies. They were Madame Salgado, wife of the Minister of Aviation for
Brazil; Madame Amaral, head of the Legion for Assistance; and Miss
Aranha, daughter of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. They were sent
by Madame Vargas who has been ill for some time, but who has been very
active in the organization of ladies' work along many lines.
All of them were charming, all of them were ladies of education,
speaking not only their own language, Portuguese, but English and
French, probably German and certainly Spanish. All three were well
read, anxious to make a contribution to their own country, also anxious
to build up a real link with the women of our country. They are showing
great hospitality to our servicemen. I hope that if their servicemen
should come to our shores, or when they themselves come, that we will
be equally hospitable and build a lasting link for future good-willgoodwill.
Yesterday I had the pleasure of spending an hour in a training
class for junior hostesses which is being conducted in the Department
of Commerce auditorium. I felt rather inadequate, since it is obvious
that I can never be a junior hostess. But I think the real problem of
all hostesses transcends age and even looks. It is inherent in liking
people and wanting to make them feel at home. A 70 year old70-year-old lady who
heads the Guatemalan version of the USO might well be the pattern for
us all.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
