
                  
                     WASHINGTON, D. C.—How it did rain in New York City yesterday! Foolishly, I left my umbrella at home, thinking I could always pick up a taxi. When the meeting of the United States Committee for the careCare of unremarkablethe European Children came to an end, I stood hopefully in the doorway of the State Charities Aid Building, and lo and behold, there were no taxis in sight. The Salvation Army came to my rescue, however, and a very kind gentleman walked down a block or two and brought one to the door.
The rest of the daytime hours were consumed in seeing people. There was a time in my life when my contacts were largely through the written word, but in the last few years, individual people have spoken the novels which, once upon a time, I read. Some of their stories are as strange as any to be found in books. Yesterday, I mixed some people who were strictly businesslike and practical with those who lived in dream worlds of their own.
I dined at home and then started uptown to attend my first Newspaper Guild Meeting. I may not have any right to be a member of the Newspaper Guild, as has been suggested by one gentleman, but I was admitted last night, so I am at present apparently in good standing. The group as a whole, I hope, have a comfortable feeling that if they really want to, they can always get rid of me. In the meantime, I enjoyed a rather long drawn out evening.
A great many years of listening to speeches and conversations have made of me, I hope, an appreciative and understanding listener. Since we never end our education, I hope that this like many others other experiences may be a valuable contribution to mine.
We flew down to Washington this morning and picked up Major Henry Hooker on our way to the airport. He had never flown before and I was glad that we had such a beautiful day and that he enjoyed it. Miss Thompson is becoming a veteran flyer, for our trip was quite bumpy in spots and she was completely unperturbed.
I have just seen the first copies of "The Moral Basis of Democracy",," which the publishers have sent to me. At least it looks short enough not to frighten anyone by its length. The other little book, which I wrote this summer, is a child's Christmas story and is considerably shorter. It will come out in November. I understand that several other people have followed in Mrs. Dwight Morrow's footsteps and have written Christmas stories for children, which also may have some meaning for older people.
The Crown Princess of Norway is here to look for a house. A number of people came to lunch, each of them with some special thing to talk about. So, wherever you are, people continue to bring you an insight into the life of this country.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
