
                  HYDE PARK
                     —As I came out of the dentist's office this morning, I jumped into a taxicab to hurry to an appointment with my daughter at the Democratic State Committee office. When we had driven about ten blocks, I noticed that the flag was still up and I called to the driver. He groaned and said: "That's because you look like Mrs. Roosevelt." Turning around he asked: "Could you be Mrs. Roosevelt?" I admitted being myself whereupon he said: "I am honored and won't I have something to tell my wife! Will you tell your husband he has my vote in November and I guess he has the vote of every plain man, at least every plain man who has any sense?" I laughed and thanked him, and thought how my husband would chuckle at the inference that at least a part of his opposition is made up of people lacking in sense!
My husband and the boys seem to be having grand weather at least at the start of their cruise and I can imagine how much they enjoyed dodging around amongst the islands and giving the slip to their escort! Their boat draws less water of course, and any oneanyone who knows the coast dares to go into a great many little inlets and passages where a naval escort would hardly be able to follow. Nothing pleases my husband more in Hyde Park or in Warm Springs than to lose the secret serviceSecret Service car which always follows him when he drives his own little car. It is probably even more fun to be able to do it in a ship!

                  Mrs. Scheider and I took a noon train to Hyde Park. It is such a short trip I always sit in the day coach when I have no bags so when we went through to the diner and encountered the conductor he eyed us suspiciously demanding our tickets. We explained they had been taken up in the coach and were allowed to go on.
We sat down in the diner and automatically ordered one of their specials for the day. I was much entertained by hearing our neighbors across the asileaisle who looked like people everyone should know, discussing at length what they would eat and had eaten on former trips and finally ending up with a made-up menimenu slightly more elaborate than ours but just as unimaginative.
Here we are back in Hyde Park and peace and quiet reign.
