
                  ALBANY, N.Y.
                     —Somehow or other yesterday the paper and my mail got the better of my intention of telling you a few more incidents of the strange places in which I have written "My Day"!!" Once, for instance we sat on a rock with the typewriter on another rock, right at the entrance to the Bear Mountain Bridge after a day spent at Camp Jane Addams. Much to our amusement a number of motorists passing by caught a glimpse of us and slowed up in order to see what two strange women high up on a bank with a car parked below them could possibly be doing.
Then one day we were very late, so out of the back of the car had to come the typewriter and we had to park ourselves beside a very busy road and Mrs. Scheider had to work with the typewriter on her lap. Perhaps the most exciting of all was the day I went to the Warwick School which I remember mentioning at the time, but I did not tell you that Mrs. Scheider sitting at home and wondering what had become of me had grave doubts as to whether to send in search of me until my telegram telling her that the piece was done finally reached her.
One day it was late getting in and we had a frantic telephone call and felt extremely aggrieved for as far as we knew we were not at fault. In fact we had taken our piece to the telegraph office ourselves in quite a storm and felt extremely virtuous as we drove home with some difficulty with the rain coming down in sheets and thunder and lightning playing about us. On telephoning we discovered that the Poughkeepsie telegraph wires had been out for a certain length of time due to the storm, and that no onone was really at fault. It reached its destination just in time.
Just the other day we found ourselves on the train with less than half an hour to make another one at the Pennsylvania Station for Washington and between us we had left the typewriter behind. So very laboriously we did it in long hand, dashed into a friendly office and asked a belated stenographer if she would stay over and type it for us and get it off. Sheacquiesedacquiesced without a murmur. We made our train and it appeared the next day, so her part of the bargain was carried out.

                  My remarkable mother-in-law has taken two friends who wanted a change of air and gone off again to Campobello for another week. It is a two days trip but she seems to think nothing of it and the fact that she could give these friends pleasure is all that seems to count. She will be back however, when my husband returns from the Harvard Tercentenary celebration, for she would not miss a day of his short visits.
