
                  POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y., Friday
                     —These last two weeks have taught me how many different ways people have of expressing their feeling about a candidate when they see him pass by. I made a little list in my mind of the various ways my husband was addressed.
I ran from "Hi Pal",Pal," to "Mr. President, Mr. President",President," and in between is: "Hello F.D.",F.D.," "Hello Frankie",Frankie," "Rosy",Rosy," "Teddy",Teddy," and sometimes an imitation of the radio announcers: "Mr. President, Hi, Franklin Delano Roosevelt."
Yesterday afternoon we continued to be a little late wherever we went, but the people waited and I think we got through some rather difficult places without any one in the crowd being hurt.
Sometimes it seems to me that the local authorities do not chose the easiest possible place for a meeting, but I am not as familiar with local conditions as they are and a place which seems obvious to me may really have drawbacks. I learned long ago that I had one very bad habit—I always want to rearrange everybody else's arrangements and I always think I can do it better, so trips of this kind are really excellent discipline for me, for I know that I can do absolutely nothing and so I must be a silent passenger!
When we got back to the train in Stamford the crowd closed in behind us and the cars back of us could not get through. I took one look at the packed mass of people and wondered how all of our party particularly Miss Le Hand
                   and Mrs. Scheider were going to get through. Just as I was about to send out a search party, I saw the very tall figure of Fred Storm of the United Press, and clinging to him were the two lost ladies. Somehow he managed to pull them through the crowd and land them on the train.
We did not get in to New York until nearly eight o'clock and I found that a friend of mine whom I do not see very often was still in New York so we decided to stay until this morning.
I can think of no lovelier country in the month of October than the New EngaldnstatesEngland states we have spent the past two days driving through except perhaps my own New York State. The yellow and red maples and the rust colored oaks have not yet lost their leaves and the sun still shines warmly upon them. Any day now a heavy rain or frost may strip the trees bare but I am grateful beyond words for the beauties of this season in this part of the country which I love.
