It is a long trip from Reedsville, West Virginia,—by train and you arrive in Washington at 11:25 p.m. However, the three gentlemen with us never stopped talking about their interest in education and the work going on at Arthurdale the entire trip. After a while, I took to reading some of the things I had in my brief case, but even then I listened with one ear and marvelled at the almost passionate interest these men had in their work.
I was glad to fall into bed a little after midnight but only one glance at my desk revealed it completely covered with mail to sign, to read, and books, pamphlets of every description. I love my personal letters and I am really deeply interested in much of my mail, but when I see it in a mass I would sometimes like to run away! I just closed my eyes in this case and went to bed!
Eight-thirty breakfast and the usual morning routine, then a press conference at eleven and the District of Columbia League of Women Voters' breakfast at twelve. They put on four skits dramatizing the bills for which they are working. They were all exceedingly good, but the last one seemed to me a work of art. I do not know how the other women felt but I shall never think of the Kerr-Coolidge Bill without seeing the Italian woman pleading for her right to stay in this country with her American born children, because she was not a criminal.
Leaving there, I paid two calls and came back to see a woman who wished to talk to me about a youth project she had in mind and then Miss Josephine Brown of the Works Progress Administration came in for an hour with her regional directors. From these groups you get a really remarkable picture of the country as a whole and I am always grateful to them when they take time to have a cup of tea with me and tell me a little about their work.
Then Mrs. Lucille McMillan
                   of the Civil Service Commission came to present me formally with an invitation to attend the commencement at Wesleyan College in Georgia. There were also three ladies from Syracuse, New York, Miss Ada Bittner, Mrs. Cyrus Bittner and Mrs. Anna Deidel
                   for tea and I finished with a hurried visit to the new headquarters of the Women's Democratic Council.
