
                  
                     Golden Beach, FloridaGOLDEN BEACH, Fla., Sunday—Yesterday morning we had one of those heavy rainstorms which come in gusts in the tropics. After lunch it cleared sufficiently for us to walk some distance along the beach and play about in the water for a while.
I find myself easily adapted to being lazy in the rain or in the sunshine and the colors in the ocean fascinate me at all times. Yesterday afternoon, the water was green inshore and the further out you looked, the deeper the green became until at the edge of the horizon, it looked a dark green emerald. This morning the shades run from pale blue to deep violet.
We watched five pelicans flying low in formation over the water yesterday afternoon. I am sure they play follow-the-leader, for when the leader dips all the others do. I wondered whether there was some rule about the way they caught the fish, otherwise it seemed as though the leader would grow fat and the others would grow lean.
I finished James Hilton's "Random Harvest" yesterday. In the play of the imagination it reminds one a little of "Lost Horizons." The man who is always seeking his lost memories, is not very different from the rest of us, for most of us go through life seeking something.
We do not always find it, so that we can end our tale with the happy cry:"  "It is not too late." Mr. Hilton seems very familiar with the baffling situation that faces most people, either because of some lack in themselves, or surrounding circumstances which make the accomplishment of their desires unattainable.
Last night I read through the scenario for a motion picture written by Robert Van Sittert, an Englishman. It gives a remarkable picture of Czechoslovakia before and after Munich. Finally, it leaves you with the assurance that the people may be subjugated, but so long as the thing we call the soul of a people lives on, even in the hearts of its children, there is inevitably a day of resurrection and liberation.
I was glad to hear over the radio last night that the Lease -Lend Billlease-lend bill had passed the Senate. This morning I read the text of the bill aloud from the newspaper, so that we would know just what form was being submitted to the House before the bill goes to the President for signature. It seems to me that Congress has properly safeguarded its own responsibility and I hope a united nation will speed up our industrial output.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
