
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—Saturday evening we came back to Washington and Sunday was a quiet day, with only a few friends coming in, until I went at five o'clock to a meeting at the John Wesley A.M.E. Zion churchChurch sponsored by the adult education group of the 
                     Parent Teacher Associations. They have been holding discussions on the problems of children, particularly such problems as the war has high-lighted. It was a very full meeting and I thought it showed a commendable interest on the part of both parents and teachers.
After supper, with our son-in-law and our grandson, I went out again to a mass youth meeting at the National City Christian church
                  . This church seems to be doing a very active work among young people. They have apparently a very varied program and the young people really participate—which is, after all, the secret of all good work. The meeting was crowded and I was happy to meet with some of them personally at the close of the meeting.
A few days ago a kind gentleman sent me a copy of Munsey's Magazine for November, 1908. I am sure you will be interested, as I was, in the fact that this copy contains an article entitled "Washington, Our Beautiful Capital—its seamy side".side." As I read it, I realized that very little had changed. Time had passed, but the same things which were being said about our very lovely capital in 1908 could be said today.
We can be proud of our buildings, since they make our city one of the most beautiful in the world, but we cannot be proud of many of the things which do not make it a good place to live in. Our institutions are not model institutions, such as we might hope for in the NationalnationalCapitalcapital, and it is really discouraging to see that what was written in 1908 could be written with so very little variation today.
On March 1 the drive will begin for the Red Cross War Fund. This, like all the other funds being sought today, is larger than any collected in the past.
Philadelphia has an idea I think is very good. They are selling "shares" in the War Fund for $5.00 each. On the back of the "bond" which they give you, twelve dividends are marked out for your monthly inspection. They are good dividends and I think that everyone will feel that any money invested brings them in very high returns.
I held a press conference this morning. There is already great interest in hearing from my daughter of her experiences when she returns. All I could do was to promise that I would transmit the invitations, as I have not the slightest idea of whether she intends to divulge anything that she may have seen or heard.
(COPYRIGHT, 1945, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
