
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Monday —Saturday evening I heard the record which Lynn Fontanne made of the poem: "The White Cliffs of Dover" by Alice Duer Miller. It is a beautiful recording and anyone who likes the poem will enjoy it.
These records were a gift and together with them came two volumes of Sir Cecil Spring-Rice's "Letters and Friendships" which I had been seeking, but which had to turn up in a second-hand book sale. I am not a good person at watching for any particular item. Life becomes hurried and I forget to look, and so I am most grateful to the thoughtful and kind friends who gave me these treasures, which are going to be a continuing joy.
Rather sadly I left Hyde Park right after lunch and reached New York City in time to go the the broadcasting studio and be present at the National Youth Administration broadcast, which closed American Music Week. At this last concert they sang music by Negro composers. One particularly beautiful song, "Ode To America",," composed by Jules Bledsoe, renowned American singer, was dedicated to the President.
Yesterday morning I went to the big house and enjoyed a chat with my mother-in-law and Ethel, Franklin, Jr.'s, wife. She has brought their small boy to stay a whileawhile, for she will be more or less on the wing while the destroyer to which Franklin, Jr., is assigned moves around.
My mother-in-law was going over speeches for the two broadcasts she made, as she has done in years past on Mother'Mother's Day. There is no one I know who sets greater value on the duties and pleasures of motherhood and who is certainly an appreciative person to speak to other mothers on that day.
A quiet dinner and an evening spent at home after seeing some people immediately after the broadcast.
Today I had several appointments. At noon I received the FRanceFrance Quand Meme Relief Committee pin from Madame Houdry, president of the committee. From there I went to the luncheon given by Mr. Robert Porterfield of the Barter Theatre.
Here I gave the award to the winner of their annual prize. This year it went to Ethel Barrymore for her performance in "The Corn Is Green." I certainly enjoyed the play when I saw it early in the winter, so I paid my tribute to her on this occasion with real warmth and admiration.
Just a week from today, on May 19th, Boys' Club Week will be celebrated throughout the United States. This year marks the 35th anniversayanniversary of the founding of boys' clubs in America. These clubs have meant so much to the youth of our country that I hope every community will show its appreciation to the boys and to those who have worked in the organization and have made it as strong and useful as it is today.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
