
                  
                     BostonBOSTON, Mass., Friday—I find myself unexpectedly in Boston. The night before last, our youngest son called me in Washington and said that the doctors were a little worried about his wife during the day. Even when I reached New York late yesterday afternoon, there was no further news.
I took a friend of mine, who has for some time been unable to go about a great deal, out to the New York World's Fair. With two or three other friends we went to the French Pavilion for dinner so that we could see the lights when the fountains played a little after 9:00 o'clock. It is an unbelievably lovely sight. She was as enthusiastic as I hoped she would be. I left her at home and returned to my own apartment rather late.
As I entered the door, the telephone was ringing. It proved to be my son, who told me that things were not going very well with his wife. It always seems particularly hard when young people meet the first disciplines of life. We know these have to come to all of us but it never makes it any easier. I wondered what to do, feeling that it was probably too late to make the night train, when my husband called me on the telephone. I voiced my doubt of being able to make the midnight train and he said firmly: "What are you thinking about? It is only eleven o'clock." And so it was by Standard Time, which I had entirely forgotten. Then he added: "You can get the train that goes through the Pennsylvania Station at 12:45," which I did.
I was fortunate enough to obtain a section and realized how spoiled I had been lately, for travelling so much with Miss Thompson has made it possible to have a compartment. I had almost forgotten how to dress and undress in a berth. Fortunately, the technique is soon re-acquiredreacquired. I can't say, however, that the night was a very restful one and I was glad to arrive here this morning. If I did nothing else, I was able to answer the questions of the various reporters and take that much off my son.
To have hoped for a baby, and then not to have it is always a very bitter disappointment, but these two young people realize that they have much to be thankful for in that Anne herself is well and strong. They are young and the future lies before them and they have the courage which makes us proud of youth. Like all other disappointments and sorrows, it will probably make them more conscious that, in the real things in life, everyone stands on the same level and God sends us disciplines in order that we may better understand the sufferings of other people.
(Distributed by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
