
                  
                     Yosemite, Calif.YOSEMITE, Calif., Sunday—To continue this retroactive diary, on Wednesday last I spent the morning in my son's apartment attending to our much neglected mail and seeing two National Youth Administration representatives, who told me of some of the projects in that area. They are having much success training boys for forestry work.
My grandmother's old friend and companion, Mrs. Annie Winter, with one of her young friends, lunched with us. Mrs. Winter is a wonderful old lady with indomitable courage. She casually remarked that she was coming East this summer, because her sight is failing and she thought she would like to see her daughter again. There was no self-pity, however, and a real zest for life was apparent in every word of her conversation.
At 2:30 I started for Redlands, California, driven by a very charming young man. I enjoyed my drive and every minute of my visit here. The view from the house of the President of the University is one of the most beautiful mountain views I have seen anywhere. Every one was kind and cordial and I had time for a glimpse of their lovely Lincoln Memorial Building, and also for a visit to a lady who is the moving spirit of their music association there, which gives free symphony concerts during the summer. She had planned for the lecture and then had broken her hip and lay unable to work or attend to any details. It was easy to see that she was a person whose influence inspired other people, for everyone thought of her and seemed to work eagerly to achieve the results which she had desired.
We arrived back in Los Angeles at a late hour, and I left by the 9:00 o'clock plane the next morning for San Francisco. My afternoon there was very pleasant. My friend, Miss Mayris Chaney, lunched with us and then we visited her hat shop, where I bought two hats which will be awaiting me in Washington on my return. Then I visited some of my favorite Chinese shops and returned to my hotel to meet with the Women's Board of the San Francisco Fair at 4:00 o'clock. They are full of delightful plans for activities at the Fair that will give women visiting it a pleasanter time. I was happy to see Mrs. George Creel and my old friend Mrs. William Denman and many other familiar faces. I hope they will be able to carry out their ideas successfuly, for the Fair was so lovely last year that I am hoping a great many more people will be able to see it this summer.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
