I am beginning to wonder if all the legislation in the world will ever make people invest their money for any really good reason? Does any one else get the impression, I wonder, from reading the newspapers feel that there is little rhyme or reason to the going up or coming down of the Market? I go to New York and am told on every hand that this person or that person expects to be ruined within the next few months; that every indication points to the fact that whatever money people may have will be taken away from them! The paper I pick up to-night has a heading which says:-"Stocks swept up from one to three dollars" and at the end of the article, says "scenes reminiscent of 1929 were common place in Board Rooms." This is all very mystifying to the uniniateduninitiated layman! I am beginning to be glad that I never had enough money to touch anything I did not know all about. Somehow or other, I think our forefathers invested their money in rather a different way. First they knew the men to whom they entrusted it and then they really knew the businesses, farms, factories or shops for they worked in them themselves or their friends were working in them. Business to-daytoday with all its complicated ramifications seems a bit like the Mad Hatter's Tea Party! A little simplification would be the first step towards rational living, I think.
I had my hair shampooed this morning which gave me a chance to read a most delightful and not very new book called "Hound of Heaven." If you have never read it, and like dogs, I recommend it. It will give you a little choke in your throat for there are few human bonds which mean more than the bond between a dog and his master or mistress.
Two teas this afternoon, nothing very unusual except that I was deeply honored by having Senator Robinson and his wife attend. The House and the Senate must have adjourned to-daytoday for a number of the members came, which I always think is particularly polite on the part of the men,.

                  My husband ran a rival entertainment which complicated arrangements somewhat but the Knights of Pythias took possession of the Diplomatic Reception Room, and I could not see that this entertaining on two floors impeded progress as far as my tea parties were concerned, so I hope that all went well on the floor below!
