
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday—Last evening was most fascinating. Some years ago, young Mr. and Mrs. Dana Lamb showed the President some pictures of a remarkable trip which they took along the coast of Mexico in a covered canoe they had made themselves. Last night they came to show us the pictures of another trip through the heaviest jungle country in Central America.
They lived with a lost tribe while they searched for a lost city. Their supply of films ran out, so they came back to civilization, heard of the war and came home. I am sure that some daysomeday they will go back to explore this fascinating country.
The marvel to me is that a woman can harden herself to endure the discomforts of such a trip and yet look as finished and fragile as ever on her return to civilization. Mr. and Mrs. Lamb decided to be explorers when they were youngsters in school together, and ever since their marraige they have carried out their dreams. Some of the pictures of Central America are so beautiful you long to see this country, though I am afraid the insects and snakes would keep me away.
We also saw a film of some of the National Youth Administration defense training shops. This seemed to me exceptionally good and I hope it will be shown in commercial theatres, because I doubt whether many people know how very thorough and varied is this training, open to both boys and girls.
This morning the Girl Scouts came to present me with a box of cookies in commemoration of their thirtieth birthday. Later a Mr. Chatterjee, a very interesting man from India, came to talk to me about his plan of organizing an army of pacifists militantly to fight for peace. I am afraid I was rather discouraging, for it is rather difficult for me to see how this could be done at the present time.
I have just been told that the Defense Bond plan used by Northwestern University, originated here at Georgetown University, and that the executive secretary of the Georgetown Alumni Association was called to the Treasury Department to help other organizations to acquaint themselves with the plan. Whoever was originally responsible, it seems to me such a good idea that I hope it will be used by many organizations.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
