
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—We said au revoir this morning on the train to the young Duke of Kent and his aide, who started off on a long day of inspection which will take them to Norfolk, Va., and back here by 7:00 o'clock this evening. I think what impresses me most of all in meeting English people today, is the great strain under which they have been and their sense of obligation in fulfilling whatever they consider is their duty. In coming to Canada and the United States, they represent the British people and they try in every way to express to us the appreciation they feel for the constant flow of aid from this country.
I have been able to say so little in my column the last few days about what I have actually seen, that I want to add a bit to my impressions of Pensacola, Florida,. While there, we lunched at the San Carlos Hotel with the Mayor. I think one gets the feeling in that attractive hotel of the change and growth of the whole city.
Life is really humming in Pensacola. Captain Read drove me around in the morning to see as much as possible of the naval training station. I saw the various air squadrons, where the boys learn the different phases of flying which are necessary in the Navy. I saw their auditorium, where movies are given free for their entertainment, and where many classes are also held.
I saw the section which is given over to the training of British pilots and met their commanding officers, who spoke with appreciation of the training their boys are receiving. I do not think I have seen in any station, a more complete setup for physical exercise and recreation. Every available space is used for courts and playgrounds, so that the boys may have different kinds of exercise according to their tastes.
Great attention is paid to their physical development through participation in the athletic program. Mr. Gene Tunney and his superiors must be very happy over their accomplishments along these lines.
There is, as yet, no USO building or program being carried on in the city, though the money raising campaign went over the top. It seems to me important that these buildings be erected as quickly as possible and the programs begin to function, for they are much needed in the towns near our various training stations and camps.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
