
                  
                     Philadelphia, Pa.PHILADELPHIA, Friday
                  —Last night we gave the largest dinner of the season, the one for the diplomats. Very few government officials come to this dinner, but the Secretary of State and Mrs. Hull always attend and, as Mrs. Hull also lunched with me yesterday, she told me the Secretary had inquired if she had decided to live permanently with us.
The uniforms and decorations make this a very colorful party. After dinner we had a very delightful entertainment with Miss Rose Bampton, soprano; Mr. Joseph Bentonelli; tenor, and Miss Catherine Littlefield with two of her Philadelphia dance groups.
I was particularly interested in having Miss Littlefield because she has created a group which made a name for itself in Europe. Last last summer and I think will do a great deal to create a wider interest in the American ballet in this country.
Mrs. Scheider and I left Washington for Philadelphia on the 8:00 o'clock train this morning. I spoke for the United Charities Campaign, in which Mrs. Curtin Winsor is interested. She met us at the train and brought our small grandson, Bill Roosevelt, who was allowed to be away from kindergarten for the morning. I missed him during his visit here for the Christmas holidays, so I was glad to have this chance of seeing him.
We had an hour and a half at the hotel before the meeting. My friend, Miss Chaney, who is dancing in Philadelphia, also came over to see me, so I combined business with pleasure.
I must tell you about a movement which has been brought to my attention by Mrs. Ann Nilburn of Beverly Hills, California. She tells me they have established an organization called: "Children's Service to Children" under the auspices of the Children's Protective Association. The purpose of this is to let the well-provided-for child assist and understand the needy child.
The youngest group—and there are nine different groups limited to twenty-one members each—consist of youngsters in the seventh and eighth grades. The oldest group are juniors and seniors in high school.
Grown-ups in the community apparently run a cottage where a group of maladjusted, unhappy children are cared for and restored to a normal, happy existence. This work is aided by the youngsters. They give parties for the children, know them individually and raise money for the needs of the cottage and the children. They come into contact with, and are guided by, two well trained case workers of the Children's Protective Association.
It seems to me this might be adapted to the needs of different communities. It might be a practical, sensible way of introducing youngsters to their own community at an early age.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
