
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—It is time for us to make our plans for visits again this summer to the two world fairs. Some of us who live in the East may not be able to go to San Francisco, but we certainly should get to the New York World's Fair this year. It was demonstrated last year that a great many people came because of its educational values. There are to be two exhibitions this year which I think will be of special interest to women.
One is to be called:- "The World of Fashion of 1940".." The building will have a complete picture of the major fashion trends. There will be a Hall of Textiles, a Parade of Labels (nationally known creator and retailers) an exhibit of shoes and stockings, an exhibit of furs, sports clothes, bathing suits, etc. In the small theatres, living actors will show the fashions while they entertain their audiences with amusing skits. These will be varied by movies and lectures and talks by leaders in the fashion world. Of course, this building will have a restaurant and agardena garden so we women can spend the day. Doesn't this new opening sound attractive to you?
The other new exhibiton will be called: "America At Home." A score of prominent decorators, designers and architects have accepted an invitation to submit designs for original rooms which will dramatize the extensive new home furnishing and decorative arts exhibit. It is especially interesting that these exhibitors have all achieved unusual success in expressing characteristically American backgrounds for one or more geographical sections of our country. The object is to bring to our attention that America can produce through its hand craftshandcrafts and in its home furnishing, industries which are distinctive and therefore approproateappropriate to its own surroundings.
A jury of men and women prominent in the fields of art, merchandising, design, education and museums will pass upon the merit of manufactured products and designs here exhibited. We can see again the fifteen housesinhouses in the "Town of Tomorrow",," which will use American materials and will be redesigned and redecorated. These two exhibits are mainly conceived and managed by women, and they certainly cater to women's interests.
Last year the President was kept from going to the San Francisco Fair, but nothing should keep him from getting there this year. I hope, if he goes, that the Indian exhibit will be there again, for that was one of the unforgettable sights.
Yesterday I lunched with the 73rd Congressional Club, greeted two groups of high school students, and had the pleasure of seeing the film "Rebecca",," of which I shall tell you more tomorrow.
This is early Easter morning and we have been to the sunrise service at Arlington, where I received some beautiful Bermuda lillieslilies.
(COPYRIGH, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
