
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—At 12:30 yesterday, I flew up with Admiral Emory S. Land, to attend the opening of the first convalescent home, which the United Seaman's Service, Inc., is opening. Major and Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt have given their home, "Mohannes",," in Oyster Bay, to the Committee for the duration of the war.
Since Major Roosevelt is in Alaska, and their sons are either in the service or working for the Governmentgovernment, she had to hand over the keys herself. It was a very nice ceremony, and I saw a number of my Oyster Bay Roosevelt cousins, which was equally pleasant. I was sorry that Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, Senior, was not well enough to be there herself, for I am sure she is glad to have one of her son's homes used this way during the war.
We were driven out and back by Captain Sullivan of the A. W. V. S.AWVS, so I was at my apartment in New York City by 6:00 o'clock. Some friends came to see me and then I dined with a friend and caught the night train for Washington. As I got off the train this morning, it was hard for me to realize that I had been gone only about eighteen hours.
At noon today, a young lady came to see me about the program to teach senior high school students something about aviation. I I have already mentioned it in my column. She tells me the program is open to both boys and girls, and all but four States are putting it into their public schools. In New York State, the legislature is granting a sum of money to cover the cost of the necessary equipment. If all the legislatures do not follow this procedure, money for equipment will probably have to be raised from state groups.
An anonymous letter came to me the other day, asking me to answer a problem in my column. Through Mr. Earl Harrison, Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, I find that only a person who entered the United States as a visitor in 1925 is, of course, here illegally. Since my correspondent is a woman married to a United States citizen and mother of an American born child, she could probably apply for the suspension of the provision of a recent law under which she is subject to deportation, and her entry into this country can then be legalized.
She should go to the nearest office of the Immigration and Nat ralizationNaturalization Service and tell all the facts of her entry into the United States. If her record is good since then, she will undoubtedly get the benefit of the provisions of the Alien Registration Act of 1940 which provides for a suspension of deportation under similar circumstances.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
