
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Tuesday—Yesterday was a busy day. The rain continues and it was still coming down with determination when I stepped off the train at Poughkeepsie a little after 10:00 a.m. I had to do some errands, give a number of orders in the house, have a bag packed, go down to the hospital to see Mrs. Scheider, have lunch, and leave as near 2:00 as possible for Lake George.
I always think I am a fairly good executive, until I get wound up doing little details around the house. Then I find I can spend more time doing nothing than anyone else I know. To add to our difficulties, the telephone wires to the big house were down and all messages came to me and had to be sent over by car.
I did get off at 2:30. The run to Lake George is beautiful even under grey skies and, after we reached Albany, the rain stopped. Under ordinary circumstances, I would have driven myself, but I made up my mind to come back last night and decided that a punctured tire at 2:00 in the morning would not be so pleasant if I were alone, so I was driven up in state in one of the big cars and felt rather lonely and insignificant bouncing around in the back seat.
The National Achievement Award, given by Chi Omega every year, was presented this year at their national convention, which they held at the Sagamore Hotel at Lake George. Judge Florence Allen, the recipentrecipient, had hoped to take the night train for Ohio, but decided that it would not be possible because she did not think that I could get her to Albany by 1:30 ama.m. As a matter of fact, I drove through on my return trip about 12:45.
There were about 300 girls besides some members of the committee, and a few of Judge Allen's friends present. Her sister, Dean of Women at the Ohio State University, was the only member of her family there. Dean Sommer. of New York University, where Judge Allen studied, gave a most amusing address. It proved that many of the things we complain about today have been complained about unceasingly ever since we first settled this country. However, I think our punishments today are a little less harsh. We do not have disobedient sons put to death, nor do we duck scolding ladies three times in salt or fresh water.
Judge Allen herself made a remarkable speech. I am sure it must have left not only an inspiration, but a determination in the hearts of many of the girls present to justify what had been done for them in the past.
The weather is still cold and the skies gray and fires burn on our hearths, but we are happy today for Mrs. Scheider is home at last.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
