
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—A little after 5:00 yesterday afternoon, on our picnic grounds at Hyde Park, representatives of various organizations in the county gathered to discuss with state representatives what had been accomplished in spreading nutrition information. Miss Ruth Wheeler, of Vassar College, who had been made chairman by the Cornell University group, which is in charge of this work in the State, has been ill, and so the work is not completely organized.
I felt a good deal was accomplished yesterday, for they named a radio and publicity chairman and talked over methods of getting information to the people of our county. A home demonstration agent is being sent by the Emergency Home Demonstration Committee to a group of counties, including Dutchess, and our county agent, Mr. Shepherd, called a meeting at which women were named to take charge of the arrangements for the agent's work.
This seems to me very important, because she can help us to accomplish things which are now being asked of the women of the United States of America. First we may see that our schools are used as demonstration centers for child feeding. That means that every available source of supply must be tapped for food to be used daily.
I think that every housewife would like to set aside a part of her canning for use in the schools. This program can be carefully planned in every school district so that a variety of foods are available. It seems to me that every rural school might well enter into some reciprocal agreement with the nearby city school, by which they help the city school to carry on a similar food demonstration program. In return, the city school offers them some kind of entertainment or participation in group activity not available in the rural school district.
In addition, we are being asked to furnish certain kinds of foods for use in England. Shipping is a difficult problem, but the food must be available whenever the ships are ready to take it. Therefore, I think every housewife could set aside on her shelves certain things which are needed in England, and feel that she is actively participating in the defense of democracy.
We had a picnic supper after our meeting and my guests found the dehydrated corn soup, which was sent me for demonstration purposes, to be extremely good. Everyone went home by 8:00 o'clock and I worked at my desk and finally finished around midnight, having been tempted away from my work to listen to the Treasury programs on the air twice during the evening.
We left Hyde Park this morning at seven-thirty.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
