
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—Yesterday afternoon I was glad to have an opportunity to talk with Mr. Elmer Harber from Oklahoma. Some time ago, on a lecture trip, I had the pleasure of spending the night with Mr. and Mrs. Harber, and I am always anxious to renew old acquaintanceships. He told me a number of interesting things, among them he mentioned the generous gift of scrap iron which is being shipped from the town of Seminole, Oklahoma, to the British. Such generosity would indicate a real understanding of the fact that Great Britain's victory is important to the world.
I went in to tea for a few minutes at the Dumbarton House, where the New York Colonial Dames were acting as hostesses. The house is very lovely and they are holding teas there every Thursday afternoon to welcome visitors. The charming furnishings and the proportions of the rooms make this house well worth a sightseeing visit.
Later, I spent a half hour or more with a young group of Colgate College students who have been in Washington since mid-September studying their government. They now go back to finish the year in academic halls, but I think they all feel that their practical experience has been more valuable than any amount of textbook study of the subject could be.
Mr. Gilmore D. Clarke, Chairman of the Commission of Fine Arts, dropped in at tea time to talk over some of the White House furnishings. Through the kindness of a committee, which was established in President Coolidge's day, we are gradually acquiring some very lovely furnishings in the Red Room, as well as adding to those already in the Green Room. We are delighted with each new addition and I hope that future occupants of the White House will enjoy them as much as we do.
In the evening we attended the annual dinner given to us by the members of the Cabinet. My mother-in-law, our daughter and her husband were able to be here also. It was, as always, a charming dinner and Mr. Lawrence Tibbett sang afterwards and gave us a very happy evening.
I am flying to New York City this morning, and tonight am attending a dinner given by the New York Women's Trade Union League in my honor. I always feel a little guilty when dinners are given for me, but I realize that these attentions come to me largely as the wife of the President. I am happy, however, to have this group feel that something has been accomplished during the past few years, for we have long worked together in the hope of improving the lot of the working woman.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
