
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday—After a drive across the Triborough Bridge and down the East Side Highway with very few traffic signals against us, I reached the house in New York City very promptly last night. My daughter and son-in-law were awaiting me, and we had time for a really comfortable dinner before I was called for and driven over to Brooklyn for my evening speech.
Miss Mayris Chaney went with me and, on the way back, after we had picked up my bags, we went into the restaurant in the station. We had ice choclatechocolate and chicken sandwiches and much talk about a pleasant program she has in mind to keep all of us, young and old, in better physical condition during these strenuous days.
Once on the train, I tried to stay awake and do some of the mail, which I had not finished on the way up. Finally, my eyes would stay open no longer and I woke just before we pulled into Washington this morning. I had breakfast with Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Elmhirst and Mrs. Elmhirst's son and daughter-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Michael Straight, which started me off well for the day. It is a joy to have them staying here.
Just as I was leaving to walk up to the office, the President arrived from Hyde Park with various friends, and they had a second breakfast. But I could not wait, because of the work at the Office of Civilian Defense.
I came back to the White House at 11:00 o'clock for my press conference. Since then, I have seen Miss Jessie Scott of the Brooklyn YWCA, who has told me about their plans for a Negro youth conference in November, and I have been photographed with "Mrs. America 1941."
I have one more postcard, which I want to share with you today. The writer seems very indignant with me because I said my knowledge of the Bible was superficial. I wonder how many people would dare to say otherwise. Few people can claim a real study and knowledge of that book, which is probably the most widely read book in the world and, frequently, the least understood. My correspondent seems to feel that saying one's knowledge is superficial, means that one had little respect for the subject.
As a matter of fact, it is because I have such a deep appreciation of what real knowledge the Bible implies, that I would never presume for a minute to consider it possible for me to claim anything beyond a very superficial study. On the other hand, my correspondent ends by thinking it odd that people in Washington can ever understand what is going on there.
I should like to assure him that it is quite easy to understand what human beings conceive and carry out in Washington in the present day situation, and I am sure most of them wish frequently for Divine Guidance!
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
