
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—Yesterday we returned to sunny, mild weather. I was almost tempted to take the four large envelopes of mail, which I brought home from the Office of Civilian defense Defense to do over the week-endweekend, and sit in the sun in the garden. However, I decided that winter sunshine is apt to be deceptive and I would soon find it very chilly, so I remained indoors.
Our guests at dinner on Saturday evening were extremely interesting. One of them, Dr. Jerome Davis, is working for the YMCA with the German prisoners in Canada. The other one, Dr. D. Davis, had just returned from Europe, where he had been in Germany as late as the month of November, in the prison camps where British and Russian soldiers are being held. Both of them gave descriptions of conditions, and we enjoyed talking with them.
Yesterday afternoon, I talked on a local radio station with Mr. John Kelly, head of our physical fitness program; Dr. Dearing, of our OCD medical group; and Dr. Gwynn, head of the District of Columbia Medical Association, who has inaugurated this series of broadcasts. He tries to interest the general public in keeping itself well and in doing the things which will be a help to the medical profession.
On my regular broadcast at 6:45, the Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Claude R. Wickard, joined me. I felt that I had a double obligation to him, because Mrs. Wickard has been out taking my place at an important meeting at South Dakota. She, I am sure, gave much of interest, which I could not possibly have given to this meeting. On the way home she is stopping to see her daughters. I have great sympathy with her, for I nearly always use any trip which takes me in reach of my children, to snatch a few hours with them.
I wonder if you noticed in the papers yesterday, the mentior mention of the American Youth Commission's last report. The foreword is writter by Mr. Owen Young, chairman of the board. I would have liked to have discussed it at length on my broadcast last night, but there was no time to do so. I think, in any case, it is important for people to read the report itself.
The committee has agreed on some very interesting statements. Just to excite a little more argument, they announce that much unemployment existed among our young people, which they, themselves, were entirely unable to prevent. They then go on to state that all young people should stay in school until they are sixteen, should have one year's service to the state, after which our economic system is obligated to adjust itself so that anyone who wants a job, may have it.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
