This spring weather down here is certainly bad for one's good resolutions.
In the first place, I ride every morning, which takes an hour and a half out of my time, and then I wonder why I have to sit up a good part of the night to finish my mail. I entirely forget that if I had not taken an hour and a half out of the morning, I would have finished my work during the day. But it is worth the loss of sleep to get out and have some exercise again.
It was so lovely on Saturday that I took my car, and a friend of mine whose birthday it was, and went out to the Toll House Tavern for luncheon. Nobody paid any attention to me as I went in, but just as we sat down someone evidently recognized me and for one horrible moment there was a decided hush all over the room.
I looked down at my plate and was very busy taking my coat off, after a few moments conversation was resumed, and my own sense of being the object of a certain amount of attention was relieved. After lunch we drove around over some rather unfrequented roads and came back to the White House fifteen minutes later to greet some friends for tea.
Mrs. Louise Lazel, of Colorado, brought her beautiful Snowden setter to pay a call. She has wanted to give us two of her dogs for a long time, but I have told her I cannot take the responsibility until I am back in my own home, where I really have time to look after dogs. It isn't fair to them to try to train them here.
We were about ten at tea. Later I had an interesting conversation with Sir Arthur Willert, who is staying here after a lecture tour through the country. My husband and Sir Arthur went off to the White House Correspondent's Dinner. The other house guests and I had a peaceful meal at the White House, after which I worked most of the evening.
This morning we rode at 9 and then my husband and I went to the Cathedral for a service, which Bishop Freeman holds once a year for us and as many members of the Cabinet as can go.
Some old friends, Mr. and Mrs. Adolph C. Miller, for luncheon with a few other guests, and now in fifteen minutes I shall be off to Grand Rapids.
