
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday—So many things happened on my trip to the
Caribbean and in South America that I did not have time or space to
report on them as fully as I wanted to.
I would like to go back now to some impressions of Jamaica. The
great problem there is malnutrition, especially with the children, and
yet, in spite of this, the women and small children walk along the
road carrying baskets or large bundles on their heads, which gives them
a very graceful walk and erect posture.
Much is being done by the government to teach new agricultural
patterns and to get people back on the land. A campaign is on throughout
the land to decrease illiteracy and volunteer committees have been
formed in every parish to teach people individually to read and write.
Of course this is an adult education program of some magnitude. Part
of the island raises good cattle for beef. Goats and little donkeys
are on the roads. The donkeys carry big baskets and often a man or
woman and child as well.
Both the Governor and Lady Huggins have experience in living in
the tropics and a great interest in the welfare of the people, and I
was warned that Lady Huggins had a reputation for energy somewhat like
the one which I have acquired. I think we are both maligned!
However, all we have is an interest in human beings which keeps
us going because it is always possible when you are interested to push
yourself a little further!
In Puerto Rico, I was most particularly interested in a trip with
Governor and Mrs. Tugwell to Arecibo, where we saw a new experiment in
the use of the land. Much of the sugar cane land has been bought from
the companies there and though a large part of it is still operated as
one big property, now, after all the expenses have been paid, the
profit is divided among all those who work it in common. Individuals
have small pieces of land belonging to them where they can build their
own houses and have a garden and a small crop of their own. This is
still in the experimental stage but promises to be successful.
I was also interested in a trip to Mayaguez, which I had visited
before. It used to be the heart of the needlework industry. Now they
stitch gloves and make ladies' underwear, but handkerchiefs, which used
to be the main product, have gone out, largely because Puerto Rico
now has a minimum wage law in operation which prevents the low prices
formerly paid for piece work. While this does not mean that people get
high wages, they are far more adequate than they used to be.
Mrs. Tugwell also took us to visit three of the milk stations for
children between two and seven. This took us through some of the
poorest parts of the city, and I cannot say that it was a much more
cheerful sight than when I was here before. Though the children are
getting only one good meal a day, they looked in far better condition
than the ones I saw ten years ago.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
