
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Monday —What warm weather we are having! Everyone in New York City looked ready to put on summer clothes. One nice thing about Washington Square is that it seems to make people feel that they are in the country and can go about country fashion.
Yesterday, after my meeting at International House, I went to the USO canteen run by the Jewish Welfare Board. It is a very comfortable place with plenty of room for dancing, games and food. It was crowded Saturday night and I thought the boys seemed to be having a very good time.
I was very glad to find my son, Franklin, JuniorJr., much better yesterday morning. When he is full of new ideas, I can always tell he is beginning to feel himself again. They were bubbling over on every subject yesterday.
I arranged my books and found a duplicate copy of a very lovely edition of BreteBret Harte's "The Luck of Roaring Camp",," so I took it over to him. He seized upon it at once to reread it, since it is many years since either of us read what both of us remembered to be a perfectly delightful story.
Franklin, JuniorJr., has also been reading a life of Simon Bolivar and is fascinated by it. Bolivar certainly must have been a a wonderful man and I am glad we are now learning to know heroes of South American history better.
I took the night train to New York City last night and went over to the Naval Hospital again this morning. Then I took a last look through the 65th Street Houseshouses to make sure that the things we want at Hyde Park have actually gone.
In the afternoon, I am attending a party at 99 Park Avenue to celebrate the giving of the one millionth free ticket for places of entertainment to the men in the Services. Under Mr. John Golden's leadership, his committee has obtained the cooperation of the various producers in New York City. They have given this tremendous number of tickets to make sure that the men coming to New York City will not spend lonely evenings.
It is a very great service, for if you have nothing to do in a city like New York, lounging around the streets isn't safe or entertaining. I am sure that similar plans have been carried out in all the other big cities in the country, but it had to be on a bigger scale in New York City than anywhere else. I am grateful to all these people of the theatre who have given so generously of their seats during these past months.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
