
                  NEW YORK, Wednesday
                     —Here we are back in New York City after a really very pleasant trip. I have never before spent a night in Atlantic City and have always wondered why people seemed to enjoy a boardwalk and a series of hotels, which from my point of view held very few charms. But when I entered my sitting room yesterday afternoon at the Hotel Chelsea and looked out of my windows at the blue sky and the sun sparkling on the waves as they rolled into the beach, I fell a victim to its charm at once.
The owner of the hotel also owns the "George V" in Paris, and he remarked when he greeted me that he had now entertained all of my family, for my mother-in-law had always stayed in his hotel when in Paris. It is very near her sister's apartment and when she was ill over there a few years ago and my husband went over to see her, he and Elliott stayed there also. The room yesterday reminded me a little of France for there were attractive little pieces of china around the room which quite evidently came from there.
I walked along the Boardwalk in the sunshine to the auditorium where an exhibition was being held during the Convention of the American Hospital Association. It was a very interesting exhibit, and as usual the occupational therapy booths were particularly interesting to me. At Radio City here some of this work can be seen.
I was much impressed by two vases done by a one-armed girl, and various other things created by handicapped people. The United Hospitals Association also had a booth where they showed one of their films which they are showing in different places throughout New York City. It seemed to me a very good way of bringing to people a realization of what the work done in the hospitals means to a community.
New Jersey had some very interesting maps showing their different plates institutions and the cooperation between the state institutions and the private institutions.
When we came out again into the sunlight, Miss Harriet Robeson who was my guide, and I decided to try a wheel chair. It is a nice calm method of locomotion and really very relaxing.
The dinner in the evening in honor of Mrs. Eleanor Clark Slagle, was a very touching tribute. She has given seventeen years of volunteer service to the Occupational Therapy Association. She is the head of the occupational therapy work in the New York State hospitals, and so her old friend, Dr. Adolph Meyer, and her present chief, Dr. Frederick W. Parsons, came to pay her homage and I was very glad to have an opportunity to be there also. I have had much opportunity to observe her work and to realize what it has meant to many unfortunates.
Mrs. Scheider and I left Atlantic City early this morning and are busy on a number of errands today.
