
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday—Mrs. Helm, Miss Thompson and I went down to Annapolis, Md., yesterday. Every year I have been asked to speak to the women's club there. I begin to feel a little bit apprehensive that they will grow weary of having me speak to them so often, even though for me it is always a very pleasant occasion.
Lunch with the wife of the Superintendent of the Naval Academy is a delightful prelude to the afternoon meeting. Just now, the Superintendent is Admiral Beardall, who was the President's naval aide for some time. Mrs. Beardall told me that even though they had been there only a few weeks, they have had a number of guests, among them the Norwegian Crown Prince and Princess and their two daughters. I think the two little girls must have had a wonderful time seeing all the activities of the Naval Academy.
The boys are being hurried through their intensified training and there are usually short term officers' schools going on as well. It seems to me that the buildings have been multiplied considerably in the last few years and there is not as much tree-shaded lawn space as there used to be. The City of Annapolis, itself, has great charm, some very lovely old houses and, of course, St. John's College, which is quite unique.
In the evening I dined with a few people from the British Embassy, who have organized a group which meets every two weeks, the better to acquaint themselves with what the American scene is really like. I had not realized how many British people were working in Washington until last night. I found the hall packed for the meeting.
This morning I spent a couple of hours at Miss Katharine Lenroot's conference on the war needs of children. There were a great many organizations represented there, and I am sure they will make very valuable recommendations and be of assistance to all the agencies working with them throughout the country.
This afternoon, Mrs. George Fitch is bringing Miss Grace Kim, a Korean girl, to see me. At 4:30, a group of 43 Latin-American students from Columbia University are coming in for a reception. After that, Mrs. Florence Kerr, with Dr. and Mrs. Samuel N. Stevens, President of Grinnell College, and Mr. and Mrs. Owen Lattimore, who have just returned from China, are coming in for a visit.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
