
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Sunday —The trip by air to Boston on Friday afternoon was smooth and pleasant, and I was glad to have Mr. John Sargent with me.
I wonder whether PM is becoming to you as interesting a paper as I find it. There is barely a day when some article in it is not worth reading from beginning to end. Long ago, Mr. Louis Howe told me that a good newspaper man put into the first paragraph of his story all the essential news, because so few people ever read more than the first paragraph. Since the great majority of people never read anything but the headlines, I have always thought of what a terrible responsibility the headline writers carry.
I always read at least the first and last paragraphs of anything which seems to me a really important story. But it is only now and then that one finds something which holds one's attention from first to last, not only because it is well written, but because it is on a subject of vital interest at the present time.
On this trip, I also read Mr. Raymond Clapper's article in Liberty about "Mrs. Roosevelt." It is so interesting to get to know a stranger. There are a few slight errors in fact, but psychologically, I am sure he is right—I made him dance because of my childhood repressions. I hope when he returns from India, he will come and tell us of his impressions. I promise to be a good listener and not make him dance.
There will be no newspaper dance this year, for like all other entertainments which are purely for pleasure, it will be given up for the duration of the war.
I enjoyed my short time at Wellesley very much. It has a beautiful campus and Miss McAfee's home there is charming inside. The view is what impresses one most. Miss McAfee is one of the people with whom one would like to spend more time than a brief visit permits.
I caught the night train back to New York City very easily and ran into a group of sailors in the station who kept me signing autographs, while I waited at the ticket window to collect my accomodations.
Back in New York City, I spent yesterday morning visiting the Naval Hospital and two friends who have been ill. After an early lunch, Miss Thompson and I came up to Hyde Park. There are few signs of spring as yet, but it was good to take a walk through the woods in the late afternoon and to have a quiet afternoon before the fire. Today is a beautiful day and we shall not have to start back to New York City until after lunch.

