
                  
                     REEDSVILLE, W. Va., Monday
                  —I had a few friends to tea yesterday, 
                     Mrs. Fuller and Mrs. Scott from ArkansasDr. Louise Stanley, Miss Freysinger and Miss Van Deman from the Home Economics Branch of the Department of Agriculture; besides 
                     Mrs. Grosvenor Allen of Oneida New York, and Miss Flora Rose and her friends from Cornell.
I was thrilled to hear that a great many of the representatives coming to the meeting of the Association of the Rural Women of the World are bringing exhibitions of their rural handcraft work, and that some of our State representative are doing the same.
A few friends for supper and then Mrs. Fayerweather, Kiss Cook and I took the 11.06 p.m. train to Fairmont, West Virginia, where we arrived this morning and drove straight to Arthurdale for breakfast with Miss Clapp. A long talk with her and I drove into Morgantown with 
                     Lt. Glenn Work, who kindly drives us around when we are here.
We had a cafetaria lunch at the State University with a forum group, and then questions on any subject they wished to discuss were fired at me. This forum struck me as rather interesting as it is on a completely fifty-fifty basis. Fifty percent men, fifty percent women fifty percent students, fifty percent faculty—and all seem to participate in the discussion.
Afterwards I went to the University Experimental High School, where they have a great many children from the outlying mining districts. It is run very largely on the Dalton Plan, somewhat modified in certain instances, and staffed largely by student teachers under University professors. The most interesting thing I heard was that for three days next week, when the teachers are on vacation, the pupils have asked to have the school open and to run it themselves to show what they can do.
Back at Arthurdale I went through the small hospital, which has a capacity of three beds, and the small clinic which will be in running order very shortly. I went through the shop and there found one of the young married men on the project, making furniture for himself. I think a number of the pieces I saw should be very salable
This has been a rainy, gray day, but so full of interest that we hardly have had time to notice the weather.
