
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Monday—Four of us went to tea Saturday afternoon with Mrs. Harry Hopkins. Of course, you must know by now that I love going over a newly furnished house. To see how people arrange their own surroundings has always interested me greatly. These old Georgetown houses lend themselves to interesting arrangements. You go up and down a step here, and a step there, to different levels and it adds to their charm.
Mrs. Hopkins has a real gift for creating a charming interior and the house already has the atmosphere of a home, even though she and Diana have been in for such a little while.
My last party for the M.P.'s and the anti-aircraft artillery men came off Saturday night. I would like to pay a tribute to the young captain who gave me the names of all of his men as they came along.
After I said good-nightgoodnight to them, I went up to the Shoreham Hotel, where the North Carolina Society was having its annual get-together. I said a few words to them and they presented Christmas gifts to the President and to me. Mine has already gone to the Red Cross, with a request that they use it for hospital comforts in the Southwest Pacific. This was a very charming gesture on the part of the North Carolina Society and I deeply appreciate it. I hope the Society will have pleasure out of the disposition of their gift.
Yesterday I attended a ceremony in Philadelphia in honor of Miss Marian Anderson. In the evening I visited a number of canteens for servicemen in Brooklyn, N. Y.NY with Mr. and Mrs. Edwin B. Wilson.
A few days ago I received a booklet in the mail on the Victory Center, America's clearing houseclearinghouse for war winning ideas. It is really an interesting plan.
A group of outstanding citizens of various professions and different political and social views financed the organization of Victory Center. They solicit no funds, but they plan to arrange and to finance worth whileworthwhile, winning projects and ideas by patriotic firms and individuals.
If you have an idea you think can solve some difficulty you see ahead, send it in to Victory Center and you may be assured of expert consideration.
This promises to be a busy day with a luncheon at the Architectural League, and the African Dance Festival in the evening. In between, I hope to have a few people from the entertainment world at tea.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
