
                  CAMPOBELLO, N.B.
                     —We left Miss Dreier's at three o'clock Tuesday afternoon and went back into Ellsworth to file this daily record and send some telegrams. Miss Cook and Miss Dickerman were following us but they had to wait while Miss Dreier came up with eye glasseseyeglasses which they had forgotten! I stopped at the filling station where I stop every year to have a littlechat with the men in charge. Two years ago the little lunch room was burned down and even last year it still looked rather decrepit, but this year everything is rebuilt, spic and span and very prosperous looking. When I asked how things were going they assured me that business was fine.
I missed my turn for the cut off which is really a lovely road, and so came all the way to Whiting on Route 1 and from there to Lubec. The bridges which were down last year were all finished, and the road on the whole in good condition. As you get into the less frequented parts of Maine, you realize how much the summer boarder and visitor means to the upkeep of the farm and village home. Some of the small gray farm houses standing back from the road, make you shiver at the thought of winter and the children who survive in them and manage to get an education must at least have developed a grit which should take them far, given any opportunity.
If you love this country as I do, the sight of the pines and the glimpses of blue water where the bay comes in along the coast, with the black rocks and green trees growing to the edge of them, is very revivifying. I like the people too who stand around and say so little but who are always ready to do something if it needs to be done.
I reached the dock at Lubec to take the ferry, only to see the scow which takes us across the Narrows high on the beach on the other side with a fish truck firmly wedged, the back wheel having gone through the plants on which you go on and off the scow to the beach. The tide had gone out and left them and there they would be for some time to come evidently. No chance of getting our cars over last night. Luckily, Captain Franklin Calder, who has always taken care of us and any boats we have up here, heard of the accident and came over to take all of us with our bags by boat to our landing.
Somehow you can't believe that there is such a place as New York City or Washington or that any one in the world is interested in anything except whether the fish are running and what the weather is going to be!
