
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Friday—We drove most of the way yesterday morning from Boston to Hyde Park in the rain. Nevertheless, it was a pleasant and easy drive. I think we would have made very good time, except for the fact that we suddenly found ourselves in the midst of a procession of army trucks.
They drive most considerately, leaving plenty of space between each truck for those who want to pass and have to get in behind them. But even at that, it did slow us up a bit. However, we reached home by 12:40 and I owe Mrs. Morgenthau and Miss Thompson a compliment, for in spite of going to bed late, they were up and ready to leave Boston at anthe early hour we had planned.
Our luncheon guests were three young people from New Jersey and a young school teacher, whom Congressman Geyer had asked me to see. She turned out to be a very charming girl from Los Angeles, who had come East to spend a few short hours with her fianceefiance, who is on a merchant ship now bound for South America. She is finishing her stay in this part of the country with a little sight-seeingsightseeing in New York City.
I took these young people over to see the library and then, at 4:30, guests began to arrive at my mother-in-law's house, where the Hampton Quartette sang for us. They showed, for the first time, a movie which they had made under a grant from the Harmon Foundation. This movie depicts activities in Hampton Institute in many different fields, and ends with a most inspiring picture of all the boys and girls marching with their faces turned upwards, reminding us of their march forward into the future.
The statistics for employment of Hampton graduates are most impressive. The total employment in all the fields listed was 87 per centpercent, which would compare favorably with the graduates of any college for white people. The quartette presented me with a book of records which they have just made of Negro spirituals. I am looking forward to playing them very soon on the phonograph.
It was pleasant to arrive home yesterday and to find everything so well in order and smiling faces to greet us. I talked to the President in Washington and he seems to have more of our children gathered in that spot for the moment than I can get together anywhere else. I am rather sorry that they can notcannot all come here for the week-endweekend, but I shall at least, see some of them next week.
I am off today on a trip to dedicate a new N.Y.A.NYA resident center in Auburn, New York.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
