
                  
                     San FranciscoSAN FRANCISCO, Calif., Thursday—I had it so firmly fixed in my mind that this was a purely personal and unofficial trip that I was taken rather aback on reaching Medford, Calif., yesterday to find the Mayor and some Democratic ladies waiting for me and bringing me a delicious box of apples grown in their region. A little girl who had been in Warm Springs was also waiting in the airport. It was a very pleasant stop and I was notified that in SacrementoSacramento the Governor would be at the airport to meet me.
It was nice to see Governor Olsen looking so well and strong again, for when I was here last he was far from well. I felt very guilty at disturbing the Governor for I know only too well how busy all public officials must be at the present time, but I shall carry his greeting to the President.
In San Francisco, my friend, Mayris Chaney, met me and the sun was out to make the afternoon a success. I was nervous for we were rather late and I had kept her and a group of newspaper people waiting. While I stood talking to them, a kindly old gentleman begged me to accept a large box which he wished to send to the President and I had to explain to him that when travelling by air extra luggage is not easily taken on. I was really sorry when I saw his hurt expression.
One cannot be in San Francisco without being conscious of the Western Union strike, particularly if one has a column to file by wire. I could not help wondering why the war situation did not bring home to us the necessity for an attitude of conciliation between individuals and between groups. How can we ever hope that different races will sit down and in a spirit of justice and good willgoodwill consider the difficulties confronting their nations, if we in our own country cannot even persuade groups with different interests to meet and arbitrate their difficulties?
Only public opinion will bring this about and since so many women are asking me today what they can do to prevent war, I can only pass along my own conviction that the first thing we can do is to desire justice and good willgoodwill to prevail at home. We cannot have peace unless we begin with the individual and we must build up machinery to bring this peace about, a lesson which we should carry into our international thinking.
There must be representatives of varying points of view. There must be disinterested people who listen and patiently unremarkableand try to solve the difficulties. There must be a place for discussion. This is true at home and true in international affairs. Someone should tell the human stories that lie back of picket lines. I think it would help the management to a better understanding of the actual human needs that are the background for some of the difficultitiesdifficulties that result in strikes.
(COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
