
                  
                     St. Cloud, Minn.ST. CLOUD, Minn., Wednesday—It wasn't until I was on the plane yesterday, that I realized in giving a preview in my column of what I was going to do, that I had made a mistake. I am not speaking on Thursday night for the Public Education Association. Their meeting comes November 10th, and tomorrow, Thursday night, if the weather is kind and I reach New York on time, I shall speak for the American Council ofon Education.
I am seeing the first snow flakessnowflakes fall as I sit in a delightful enclosed porch in Mrs. Whitney's home in St. Cloud Minn., this morning. It is a charming spot, where one can envision hours spent looking out on stormy weather and rejoicing over a book and a happy feeling that one is in such comfortable surroundings.
The Duchess of Windsor seemed interested yesterday in our defense set-upsetup. As we drove to the White House, she told me that she had been looking for suggestions in the various child care programs while she had visited in the United States. These will be helpful in the work she is carrying on for children in the Bahamas. The Duke of Windsor came to meet her at the White House, and we sat down together for a short chat before I had to leave for the plane.
In Chicago, on the way to the hotel from the airport, I stopped to see the Service Men's Information and Recreation Center. The first information bureau, set-upsetup by the Consumer's Division, is in the same building on the street level. An excellent place, I thought, to acquire knowledge on how, where and what to buy. I hope each one of these bureaus will set-upsetup nutrition and buying courses which can be taken by civilian defense volunteers.
The Men's Service Center is in an old building with plenty of space. It seems to be filled with soldiers on every night of the week, but it overflows, they tell me, on Saturday nights.
On reaching the Hotel Stevens, we found Anna and John awaiting us. We had an hour together before they took their train for the West. This was an unexpected joy, and really stands out because it was so unexpected.
I saw various other people at the hotel. After the lecture in the evening, at which some charming Mexican dancers entertained us, and the Elmhurst College Glee Club sang "The Ballad of America",," we made the train which brought us here this morning.
(COPYRIGHT,941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
