
                  WASHINGTON, Friday
                     —It seems to me that this column is degenerating into a list of social entertainment, but this season of the year seems to be nothing but that. Particularly this year social functions are crowded into a short period, first because the President was away in South America early in December, and second because Lent begins on February tenth and all official functions have to be over by that time.
So my chronicle continues! Last night the Speaker's Dinner took place attended by a great many Senators and members of the House of Representatives. After dinner as usual we had a musical. Miss Joan Field, the violinist, and Miss KatherineCharlotte Boerner the soprano, are both Americans. The French flutist, Monsieur Rene Le RoiRoy who has been staying here, I have known ever since he came on his first tour to this country. He tells me he has now come to look upon the United States as his second home, and I am sure that all lovers of music look forward to his coming, for he is a real artist.
A long talk in my husband's study afterwards with Major Henry S. Hooker, and Mrs. William Brown Meloney. I think they would still be talking if I had not suggested that it was time to go to bed, thinking of the work which still awaited me at my desk. In the wee small hours of the morning I crawled into bed, and was horrified when my maid gently shook me at twenty minutes past eight this morning and I realized that one of my guests would be gone before I could dress, and that two others were awaiting me for breakfast in ten minutes! I managed not to be very late and to get through all the usual routine and leave at ten minutes before eleven to go up to the Crippled Children's Clinic at the Children's Hospital. The Board of Managers was extremely anxious as I had seen the old clinic last year, that I should see what had been accomplished first by the money which Congress had granted, and then with the money which had been made at the President's Birthday Ball. It certainly is a joyous change and I can only hope that in every locality where these balls were held some tangible results as good as these can be shown for the amount of money made last year and kept in the community.
Afterwards I went over to Georgetown to see my son and daughter-in-law's new house. They settled themselves very quickly and it is a charming house.
Mr. Charles Keene Taylor came to lunch to discuss a conference which is to be held in New York on the thirtieth of this month to consider the advisability of training in schools and colleges not only for citizenship but for government service. There are great possibilities for good in this idea but dangers also and it must, I think, be carefully considered.
