
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, N. Y., Sunday—"Man proposes and God disposes".disposes." Instead of reaching Clarksburg, W. Va., a little after 9 on Friday morning, I arrived there a little after 12, because there had been a wreck in a tunnel and our train had to make a long detour. I had no idea what I would have to do on arrival, for I had a rather full afternoon scheduled in Pittsburgh and I had planned to fly over by the regular plane which reached Pittsburgh at 1:33 P. M.p.m. Knowing that I could do nothing until I reached Clarksburg, I settled down to read.
On arrival I found that we were going straight to Jackson's Mill a picturesque and historically interesting place which I was told was Stonewall Jackson's birthplace. It is now a 4-H Club, the finest in the country, they tell me. Each county has its own cottage building where 4-H members go in summer for recreation purposes, and exhibitions are held. It is being used by a Naval Aviation Training School which is now rapidly closing down.
I had lunch and met the boys who are still there. They come from the Atlantic Coast states from North Carolina to Maine. They certainly were a group of fine looking youngsters. Then I went over to join Governor NeeleyNeely where a large gathering of people from the  neighborhood had assembled. After a brief ceremony there, at which the governor and I both spoke and where I was presented with some very beautiful glass made by the West Virginia glassblowers at New Weston, I went on to Pittsburgh.
Incidentally, this glass is now sold not only in this country, but in Europe, which is an interesting reversal of the old days when practically all glass used in this country came from Europe. Many of us have bits of Italian, Bohemian and Austrian glass in our families.
I had tentatively planned to spend the afternoon visiting the Deshon Hospital near Pittsburgh. They are giving special attention to the treatment of servicemen with impaired hearing as a result of concussion. In a few weeks they learn lip reading, and hearing aids are adjusted, so they go back to service or into certain employment. I hope that at some other time I will be able to visit this hospital. At the airport in Pittsburgh, I saw the headquarters of the Ferry Command and a Red Cross Canteen run for the fliers.
Later I went to a reception at the YWCA, and attended an informal dinner with members of the staff of the institute held under the auspices of the American Friends Service Committee for which I spoke in the evening.
I took the night train back to New York City and was only an hour late in arriving.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
