
                  WASHINGTON
                  .—Such uncertain weather as we had yesterday, but I discovered one thing namely, that when you are young, enjoyment does not depend upon the weather!
We sat on a friendly porch and ate our luncheon.  The children ran out to play between showers and everyone had a perfectly good time.  I read Benet's "Notes To Be Set In a Cornerstone," aloud, and tried to picture, as I often have before, what we will seem like to future generations.  It is a grand poem.
My small grandson was deeply concerned because we had passed a family group on the Sawmill River parkway eating lunch on the grass.  He kept asking:
"What do you think happened to those people and their picnic?"
On our way home we saw a motor run over a little dog and never even stop to find out what harm had been done.  The dog cried piteously and the small boy who owned him looked after the car, I imagine, with murder in his heart.
For a long time after we had passed the children kept talking about the little dog's cries and asking why the car didn't stop.  What is one to say?  I know that such things frequently can't be avoided, but one must have very little love for animals to be able to go on without trying to do something.
One of my nephews in New York for the day and night came down with my daughter to have supper with me and two friends.  We had a pleasant evening.  I was escorted to the train safely and arrived in Washington this morning in time to have breakfast at 8 o'clock with 12 of the delegates to the Women's Trade Union League conference who are my guests this week.  I was glad to find so many familar faces in the New York delegation.
A little later in the morning I was greeted by other guests who had arrived last evening, the Governor of the Bahamas and Lady Clifford.  They went off to visit Mt. Vernon and Gunston Hall and had lunch with Mr. Herule.
I had luncheon with Mrs. Woodward's state directors of the Division of Women's and Professional ProjectProjects who are here for a conference.  This after the entire group came in for tea.  I had hoped to have it in the garden but we have had so much rain I was afraid it would be too wet.
Tonight we have an informal dinner for the Governor and Lady Clifford.

