
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—Last night, in New York City, I went to a movie, which I enjoyed very much, and then took the night train back here. This morning I have attended a final staff conference with Dean James Landis, and held my own final staff conference. It is certainly a grand feeling to work with people and, when you leave, to feel a real warmth of feeling and a sense of regret on their part as well as your own.
I am going back for a conference with Mr. Paul Kellogg of our Advisory Committee this afternoon, and shall then leave my desk in the Office of Civilian Defense for good.
Tonight I am having a party for all those who work in the Office of Civilian Defense and who care to come, as we have been doing every month since I went into the office. Mrs. Henry Morgenthau, Jr., will receive with me, so it will be a chance for both of us to say a last good-bye to everyone. I could never have organized myself so successfuly out of a job without the help of Mrs. Morgenthau, JusticeJustine Polier and Mrs. Lindley; all of whom have left, or are now leaving also.
This will be the end of all official connections with the Office of Civilian Defense, but I feel sure that I shall not lose personal touch with a great many people I have come to know through the last five months. I am including in this party tonight, the members of my own office staff at the White House.
Yesterday I had a chance to see Mrs. William Brown Meloney, and she gave me a quotation which ex-President Coolidge often used. It is so useful to 
every one of us today, that I pass it along to you. Ex-President Coolidge averred that there were four things which made New England great, and he added New York State and Pennsylvania as well. I'm sure he quoted the following from some New England mentor:
Eat it up.
Wear it out.
Make it do.
Do without.
Four little sayings, but if we take them really to heart, what a difference they may make in our daily contribution to the winning of the war.
I have just received a request to mention to you that Saturday, February 21st, has been designated as "Norway-Day" by Mrs. J. Borden Harriman, who is chairman of the "American Friends of Norway," 36 East 48th Street, New York City. On this day they are making a special appeal to those who ski, asking that they give what they can to provide medical supplies for ski battalions of Norwegian expeditionary forces, now training in Iceland and Canada. Their object, of course, is the recapture of their native land from the Nazis.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
