
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N.Y., Friday
                  —Last evening in Syracuse, the committee of Russian War Relief, Inc. held a meeting which seemed to me to be a great success. The patriotic societies and some of the churches participated and I was glad to have the opportunity to urge people to do all they can to help the Russian people when they need it so badly.
Judging by Mr. Eric Johnston, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, and its report of his talks in Moscow, the Russians in the future are planning to buy as much from us and more than we will be able to sell them, and Mr. Johnston seems to think that we can mutually benefit each other. The importance of helping out now is that for the future we want to forge friendly bonds with each other and this can best be done by giving help when help is really needed.
Early this morning, we left by train and arrived in Poughkeepsie only in time to have a brief lunch and then go to Rhinebeck where I had promised to speak to the League of Women Voters. This afternoon, some people are coming to spend the weekend, and so our very quiet country life seems to be rather busy. I look forward, however, to three nights in the country and the peace and quiet of the countryside.
I have been asked to bring to my readers' attention the fact that there is a National Odd-Shoe Exchange in St. Louis, Mo. I do not know if this will seem to you as novel asan idea as it did to me at first, yet I now see how useful and necessary it is. In writing to me about it, the director, Miss Ruth C. Rubin says: "This organization is for persons, who, through disease or injury wear shoes of different sizes and persons who, because of amputation wear just one shoe.
"Many of these individuals must buy two pairs of shoes in order to get one properly fitting pair. Not only does this involve a double expense, but presents another problem—what to do with the other pair of mismates in order to keep them from going to waste.
"I know that there are a number of odd shoe exchanges scattered throughout the country. But they have been poorly publicized and are not known by those who really need them."
Many things are going to be needed in the future that were not needed in the past and each time I find something which is a surprise to me, I realize that it is because there are new needs in the world and therefore, I pass them on to you.
Just lately, I have had a great many letters from boys overseas and in my next column I want to tell you about one of them because it is about a subject which is very important to all of us just now.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
