
                  ALBANY, N.Y.
                     —We spent last night in Concord, New Hampshire, and shortly before getting there, I stopped at a rather lonely gas station where two men serviced the car. As I was paying my bill, one of them said: "Aren't you Mrs. Roosevelt? We're Democrats." I congratulated them on their courage in that part of the country and went on feeling that even here we had some friends!
I was awake early, 
                     and
                   so I went down to get both our cars out of the garage and parked them in front of the hotel ready to be packed. As I was going out a young man stopped me rather hesitatingly and said: "We are a group from the Baker School of Drama at Yale. We're touring New England with a play. I wonder if you would be photographed with us?" I was all prepared to say no, and did get as far as "That's advertising, I'm afraid.," when rather shyly he added: "I wrote the play myself." I asked the name of the play and he answered: "It isn't a very good name, but it is a good play." Still hesitating I said rather discouragingly: "I suppose the rest of your actors are not up yet." He hastily assured me:"  "the boys are all here and the girls are eating breakfast now. There are three girls and three boys and we will be playing here three days!." So much niavenaive enthusiasm seemed to deserve encouragement so I agreed to have a photograph taken when I got back from the garage. The local photographer, equally young, was on hand and I can only hope that this bit of publicity will boost their audiences.
They travel together in an old Lincoln, they take no scenery so their acting must cover up any deficincies in their surroundings. Some of our best actors and actresses had their training in old stock companies which used to tour this country, and for these young students to spend their summers in this way is not such a bad idea. They certainly will know how to get on together, how to stand weariness and and how to meet emergencies.
In Wiscasset yesterday, Miss Helen Hansen met us and gave me a basket of Maine peaches. Just as Maine strawberries seem to have a better flavor than any I know, except perhaps those grown on the Ile d'Orlean just off Quebec so these peaches seem to have especially delicious flavor.

                  My husband is having, I am sure an interesting day in Quebec and I am now on the last lap of my trip home. The drive from Concord to Bennington was particularly beautiful.
