
                  
                     WASHINGTON, June 30Wednesday
                   —Is one allowed these days to breathe a sigh of gratitude when the temperature becomes a little cooler? You may not mind warm weather, but when I find my dress sticking to my back, and I drip on to the letters I am writing, I find it somewhat inconvenient. Therefore, I really am very grateful to find the temperature today quite bearable and even invigorating in the early morning hours.
Last night I went to the inauguration of the new president of the Women's National Press Club, Mrs. Elisabeth May Craig. Our dinner was very good, but care had been taken to have as few items of food which are on the ration list, as possible. Every hotel is having problems with regard to adequate service, and so for the great majority of the guests, the dinner was served buffet style. No one seemed to mind, and on the whole I thought we got through more rapidly than usual.
Mr. Elmer Davis was the speaker of the evening. Both he and I seemed not to be tempted to talk over long. I finished in exactly the ten minutes which were allotted to me. I do not think any special time was allotted Mr. Davis, but he acted as though he had a time schedule too. His remarks were vigorous and to the point. He admonished us not to think that because we had won a few victories, that we had paid the full price of victory as yet. I think he was suggesting that there is no reason why any of us should pat ourselves on the back and feel that we can let up on any of our war activities or restrictions. Above everything else, I think it is our spirits we must watch, for a cheerful spirit makes our acceptance of the new conditions under which we live easy and helpful to others.
This morning a young man came to see me to talk about a high school organization, "The Student Federalist," which has been circulating petitions in favor of a world government after the close of the war. It is a very good thing, I think, that these youngsters are educating themselves in terms of world affairs. That does not mean, however, that I expect them at present to have much effect upon the thinking of those who are actually working out possibilities for the future. The day will come, however, when they will have worked up to positions where they will carry responsibility. Then this background of early study and discussion will be of value to them.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
