
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Wednesday—Yesterday, on the whole, was rather a busy day. My first surprise came when my brother handed me a cable which requested that he leave immediately for Europe on business. He calmly remarked, "I shall sail tomorrow on the 'Manhattan."''"
Even I, who think I can make arrangements fairly quickly, was a little appalled at the thought of all the arrangements that would have to be made in 24 hours. However, he was calm as a May morning and seemed chiefly concerned about some changes in the car which he gave me last year.
We went uptown together and I had a final fitting of the dress I shall wear at John's wedding. Of course, I had to face the usual battery of cameras, for if one newspaper has a photograph, all of them must have it. However, that was over very soon and I finished other errands, met my daughter, our friends, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Lindley, and Miss Hickok, at the Biltmore at 12:00 o'clock. That is too early for most people, so we had the dining room almost to ourselves, which made our luncheon very pleasant.
At 1:00 o'clock I motored back to Hyde Park through the Parkway in a new car which had so many gadgets that I felt I was learning to drive all over again. It was great fun, though, and, after dropping my bags at the cottage, I spent a couple of hours with Mrs. Scheider. She seems to improve every day, but will not be allowed even to sit up for another week.
I signed my mail and went over the letters which had come during the day, so we are really starting off today with a comparatively clean slate. In a few minutes I'm off to see Mrs. Scheider at the hospital. I shall come back here to collect our bags and then Mrs. Somerville and I will leave on the 1:00 o'clock train for New York. I shall see my children in New York this afternoon and evening and take the midnight to Washington.
A very interesting book has been sent to me by the Fashion Group, Inc., of New York, to which I have belonged for many years. It is a study made particularly to help young women who wish to enter lines of work dealing with the fashion industry. This industry includes not only women's wear, but home furnishings of every kind. Margaretta Stevenson's analysis of possible jobs is very interesting and should fill a real need for young women preparing for this type of work.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
