
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Monday—I am beginning to think that all the Chautauqua organizations have chosen charming spots for their settlements. We drove out to Chautauqua, Ohio, straight from the train yesterday and, as we drove into this summer resort, we passed gay parties and boats on the Miami River. The big swimming pool and tennis courts were crowded with young people. The cottages looked unpretentious, but attractive and comfortable.
I could not help thinking that it was an ideal place for children and young people to spend a healthy, pleasant summer. The audience was large and most attentive and the questions showed real interest in the subject, though there were a few personal ones like: " Is the color on your hat Eleanor Blue?" This made everybody laugh and lightened an otherwise rather solemn talk.
We caught an earlier train than we had expected and arrived home this morning at 9:30. This gave me a chance to say goodbye to Mrs. George Huntington, who is leaving for a short time, and to look over the mail and to take a ride. The ride was not very satisfactory because the flies bother the horses so much. I shall be glad when this particularly "buggy" season is over and we can use the woods again.
The Democratic National Convention, which is opening today, is going to mean much more time spent listening to the radio. But isn't it wonderful to have the radio? Some years ago it would have been impossible to know what was happening from minute to minute. I turn on my radio for the foreign news at intervals all the time. However, just as during the Republican Convention, I don't want to miss any of the colorful pageantry going on in the Democratic one.
I had a most interesting letter today from Mr. Frank J. Wilson, Chief of the Secret Service, telling me that during the past year the United States Secret Service has been trying to make the American public "counterfeit conscious",," and thereby to suppress the major crime of counterfeiting. They have used all the known ways to educate people through publicity and have succeeded in reducing the losses of the American people through counterfeiting from $1,151,839 in 1936 to $197,381 for the fiscal year of 1940.
The newest idea is the distribution of some colorful and attractive match folders bearing the slogan "Know Your Money" with a brief message from the Secret Service to the public. I hope to see a great many people carrying these match folders, for certainly this is an educational venture in which we should all be interested. I am grateful to the Secret Service for the work they have done to make us conscious of how we safeguard ourselves.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BYUNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
