
                  WashingtonWASHINGTON, Wednesday—I flew back to Washington this morning and had a delightful trip, my only woman companion on the plane was a young Chicago News reporter who told me she had flown all over the west and was now flying over the east making comparisons. I did not inquire whether it was scenery or people or methods of travel that she was comparing, but I imagine it was probably all three!
The young Eastern Air Lines employee who introduced us said that as we were the only ladies on the plane he thought we would like to meet and they very carefully seated us opposite each other which was considerate. On this trip I was able to travel as I like to travel with as little luggage as possible, and I wish that some onesomeone could invent for long journeys some kind of an interchangeable garment which would be workworn morning, noon and night! The new flight stewards look very smart and English in their little monkey jackets and are most soliticious of everyone's comfort.
The Junior School at Todhunter did very well in their plays yesterday and it made me quite homesick not to have my own little granddaughter acting any part.
At lunch today with the Voteless District of Columbia League of Women Voters, the drama was again much to the fore. They did a very good skit on a government report on the District, and then one of their members did a monologue illustrating conditions under which girls and women work. These are most interesting and give you in a pleasant form a great deal of really useful information.
When I am with a group, such as the League of Women Voters, I can not help feeling that their membership is so well acquainted with all the questions involved that there is very little use in telling them what they already know. Of course, getting together does bolster up one's spirits and spur us on to work, but it is the great mass of people, particularly women, who do not often hear government questions discussed who would really enjoy and profit from these plays and monologues.
This is a particularly busy afternoon. I have just had the pleasure of seeing President Quezon's two daughters, and Mlle. Paredes, daughter of the Resident Commissioner of the PhillipinesPhilippines in the United States. I was interested to find that the two girls who are fifteen and sixteen have perfectly definite ideas as to what they wish to do. After the Coronation Ceremonies to which they are now bound have taken place, one of them who wishes to study law, may stay on in England to do so. The other one wishes to study journalism and Mlle. ParesesParedes told me she had already done three years work in journalism. This looks as though girls in the PhillipinesPhilippines were going in for careers in the business world rather than devoting themselves solely to their homes.
