Yesterday afternoon the young French Boy Scout arrived at the White House, returning the official visit paid by an American Boy Scout to France. He looked so young I could hardly believe that he had made the trip alone, but he told me he lived at Neuilly and was one of a family of five, and apparently was very independent. He was certainly enthusiastic over the Boys' Clubs in this country which I found was due to the fact that the Madison Square Boys' Club had received him, and he was tremendously impressed with this as a charitable institution.
Knowing that it was his birthday, we had a birthday cake for dinner which I think pleased him and he chose to go with me to hear the Secretary of State speak and attend a concert at the Pan-American Building in honor of Pan-American Day. I felt that he had had a rather long day, for he had gone through the usual ceremony of placing a wreath on Washington's Tomb and on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. HowverHowever, he seemed to enjoy the evening. I think probably the All Service Band was the greatest interest for him!
This morning when I made the suggestion that he should go to the Bureau of Printing and Engraving, and also to the Department of Justice, he was most enthusiastic, for the G-Men seem to have a reputation which has spread beyond our own borders.
I had a ride this morning and at 12:15 I attended the annual break fastbreakfast given in honor of the President's wife by the Congressional Club. After the breakfast they had a delightful program, the artists were Madame 
                        Consa
                      Constance Heyda
                  , contralto, and Miss Elsa Raner, violinist.
This afternoon I have a number of appointments, beginning at four-thirty and at five, thirty-five members of the Patriots and Founders of America are coming to have tea. Unfortunately their whole membership could not be here to-daytoday and I could not receive them at any other time, but I am glad to have an opportunity of seeing a few of them.
At five-thirty, 
                     Madama Vagas will come to meet the President.

                  Our eldest son and his wife, and our second son are still here and it is great fun to have young people running in and out even though there is so much to do, any quiet time with them is practically out of the question.
