
                  HYDE PARK
                     —I am glad I did not have to write a column yesterday for from the moment that I started out by subway in the early morning to do a few errands until we got on the train at a quarter of eleven last night, I scarcely had time to think!

                  My husband was to be at Democratic National Headquarters at a quarter before eleven in the morning and I had promised to meet him there—My daughter and I were amused later when comparing notes on our efforts to enter the Biltmore Hotel! The escort surrounding my husband's car was just sweeping down Vanderbilt Avenue and through Forty-third street when I started to cross the street at that particular point. All the policemen nearby looked at me very doubtfully. By dint of smiling and nodding I got through, however. Sometimes the mere assumption that you have the right to go, will get you there!
My daughter had forgotten that her father was to be there and couldn't imagine why there were so many policemen and people standing around and she had to do quite a little explaining before she got by. I wasn't quite sure in what room I was to meet my husband and stopped in one of the offices to ask. Only two people were there and they were on the point of going to see the President. I did reach the proper spot on time!
Afterwards Mrs. Lehman, Mrs. Henry G. Leach, Mrs. William H. Good, Mrs. Caroline O'Day and I attended three luncheons and as we were getting out at the third, Mrs. Leach remarked: "I think we are going well to be so near schedule time." With dry humor, Mrs. Lehman replied: "I never before realized that being an hour and a half late was keeping up with one's schedule!"
Two more meetings, and I went home. Dressed and packed, had some tea and shepherded our first group of guests into Madison Square around seven-forty-five. I sat at the back on the platform watching for my mother-in-law and my children who were to come later, and watched the great crowd of people. It was an emotional group that Governor Lehman, the other candidates and later my husband faced. Even when we came out of the Garden, people in the streets and leaning out of the windows seemed to have caught some of the emotion over the radio, for in spite of the dark they recognized my husband and called out to him.
We were here at by one a.m. this morning and attended church. Mr. and Mrs. Curtis Bok, Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J. Drexel Biddle and Miss Martha Gellhorn lunched with us. Now I must take some of my guests to the train.
