
                  
                     Columbia, S. C.COLUMBIA, S.C., Friday—We motored a good many miles in Georgia yesterday and there were evidences everywhere of the need of rain. For that reason the coloring was not as beautiful and yet, driving from Atlanta through the pine woods to Roswell in the morning, was very lovely. We stayed only long enough at Roswell for a look at the old BullockBulloch house and the rooms in which my grandmother, Mittie BullockBulloch, married my grandfather, Theodore Roosevelt. Then we went back with Mrs. Stephen B. Ives to lunch.
Her small boy accompanied us for a little while in the morning and we stopped at the Lovett School for a minute, which I had visited before they moved out to the suburbs of Atlanta. The small boy was getting very sleepy, so we left him at home before we started for Roswell. We only glimpsed him again after lunch when he awoke with tousled hair to say politely: "Goodbye Mrs. 'Wosevelt'..'"
The shape of this little boy's head reminded me of his grandfather, Bishop Atwood. When families have known each other through several generations, their relationship is taken for granted. Therefore, when a reporter called Mrs. Ives on the telephone and asked her how she happened to know me, I was amused by the confused way in which she tried to explain that she really could not remember.
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Toombs called for us at the Hotel Henry Grady at 3:00 o'clock and we reached Warm Springs in time for our host, who is also the architect-in-charge there, Mr. Toombs, to show us the beginnings of two new buildings—the medical building and the school. New houses always have a great attraction for me, so I begged him to show me the last two he had done. Both of them seemed charming and especially well adapted to the climate and needs of Warm Springs patients.
Then we went to Mr. and Mrs. Toomb's home for supper. A beautiful wisteria vine completely covers the trellis over the front porch and they look up a few steps into a small garden and from the back they have a view out over over miles of Georgia country.
I had not seen their house since it was a two room cottage and, lo and behold, it has grown to be a house filled with lovely things brought from different corners of the world. I found myself wondering how certain delightful effects were created and trying to remember the way a curtain was draped because it fell so gracefully.
We drove back into Atlanta and reached the hotel about 10:30 p.m., and we realized we were conscious of those many miles we have covered.
We spent all of today on the train bound for Columbia, South Carolina.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
