
                  
                     BostonBOSTON, Friday—On Thursday I found the Homemakers Showhomemaking show very interesting, as I always do. Like most women, anything that has to do with a home fascinates me, and I could have spent a long time just looking around.
I was due, however, at a meeting of the Hillel Foundation of City College uptown, where I was to speak and answer questions. These meetings with young people always seem to me valuable. The question period seems most essential, for without it one might easily not get at the things that are primarily on the minds of the young people today.
In the afternoon I returned to my apartment to see Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Benjamin of Los Angeles, our eldest son's friends as well as mine, who happen to be in New York City. Later, Mr. and Mrs. Earl Robinson came in to play for me some of his campaign compositions, which all of us enjoyed. Mr. Robinson, you will remember, is the composer of "Ballad for Americans."
Early in the evening I went to the Needle Trades High School to address Local 142 of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. My address was made in response to the request of my old friend, Miss Rose Schneiderman.
After a bite of supper, I took the midnight train to Boston. Here I am having a comfortable breakfast and preparing to leave at 11:30 with a group of young people representing the Boston United States Student Assembly. This group is organized in several colleges here, and a joint meeting is being held today at Simmons College. The subject is "The Returning Serviceman and His Problems." There is an increasing interest among all young people, I think, in what their responsibilities will be in meeting this situation, which they know is bound to be a difficult one when men come home in increasing numbers from the far corners of the world.
At 4 o'clock I am catching a train to go and visit one of our grandsons at school. To-morrowTomorrow I shall return in the afternoon and take a train to Saybrook, Conn., where I will visit an old friend.
Visiting Connecticut reminds me of a plan which the Audubon Nature Center of Greenwich has inaugurated. They hope very much to have these "outdoor laboratories" extended all over the country. In the letter which a friend wrote me about this project, she explained that the Society is striving to show the "interdependence of human kind"—the animals, the earth and human beings. The Society was presented with 300 acres of woodland, and they set up a capable staff. The whole thing, of course, is "conservation," but it is so easy to understand because it is done so simply. It shows clearly the whole set-up of nature, going from the underlying rock, through plant and animal life, to human beings at the peak.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
