
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Tuesday—An unknown correspondent from South- bridgeSouthbridge, Massachusetts, has sent me a newspaper clipping which I fear will make one of my fellow columnists weep. His column, and I take it for granted that it is written by a gentleman, has been printed under my heading. His styleisstyle is somewhat racier than mine and on this particular day he wrote somewhat lightly about the pianist Jose Iturbi. Whoever forwarded it to me apparently was not favorably impressed and the comment enclosed reads: "Oh, Mrs. Roosevelt, what an article this is! How could you be so rough and use such grammergrammar. Phooey on such writing!"
Poor Mr. Unknown Columnist, I am so sorry I brought this down upon your head, but I'm glad that I can share one of my really amusing comments with you. I am sorry I did not read your column originally, so I do not know which one of my fellow scribes actually wrote it.
I was so glad to return to the country yesterday afternoon. I had a swim before dinner and felt deeply sympathetic with my husband and all the others who had to return to Washington last night. I called him up this morning and he sounded most cheerful and as though returning to work was much to be desired, whereas I feel delighted that it is still nearly a month off for me.
Danny Roosevelt and I rode for a long time this morning. Even though having his shoulder out of joint makes swimming impossible he can ride John's Mexican pony and we enjoyed the exercise.
The purple loose-strife becomes more beautiful every day and the swamp maples are turning red. I am afraid I shall miss the most beautiful part of the autumn coloring, for I will not be here in October. The frost will come early this year according to the katydids, so we may have the best of the autumn coloring before we leave.
Little Diana Hopkins has just arrived for a visit. She came from camp and has just had a siege of mumps, so I hope we can give her a little more country air and food before her winter in Washington begins. Now that it is cooler here I wish some of the grandchildren could be with us and I hope BetsyBetsey will bring Sara and Kate before long.
We have been doing more writing of late and I think, before long, Mrs. Scheider and I will be back in more regular working habits. If we don't do it gradually, we are going to find settling down to the usual routine in Washington a most difficult ordeal. What people do when they completely give up all responsibility for a period of time and then have to pick it up again, I don't know, for dropping part of my work makes me so lazy that I do less and less every day.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
