
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday—The Mayor of Cincinnati, Ohio;, Rabbi Wohl, with several other members of the Forum met us at the train at 8:00 o'clock yesterday morning. I am always a little overwhelmed by these early morning attentions, because I feel that the hosts put themselves out so tremendously and nothing you can do or say can really repay them.
They drove us to the hotel and left us to eat our breakfast, and at 9:30 the press appeared. I did a little work on the broadcast for civilian defense, which I made at 1:15, and saw some of the staff of the volunteer bureau, which is already established here, though still without a local defense set-upsetup. Then I settled down at 11:45 to do my column and several other articles which I have been saving up over a long period.
I had promised my daughter weeks ago, to do an article for the Christmas number of her paper. It was more difficult to write this year, because suggestions for Christmas giving have to be thought out with greater care than usual.
After the broadcast, Mrs. Thomas McAllister came to lunch. She is a member of the Voluntary Participation Committee forof the office of Civilian Defense in her region. She had a number of questions to ask. I made the discovery that there were certain things which I tried to answer without really knowing whether I was correct or not, so I shall have to take these particular points up today, now that I am back at the Washington office.
Yesterday afternoon, Judge Robert Marks and Mr. Frazier Reams came to see me. Judge Marks always sends me the most delicious box of candy when I come to Cincinnati. He tells me that it is made by a little shop that refuses to be commercialized, remains the same size, keeps the same saleswomen, and will not acquire a large clientileclientele. I can testify that it is some of the best candy I have ever eaten.
We went to the lecture without dinner, and returned to some delicousdelicious creamed chicken and milk, which fortified us for our night of travel.
I visited two of our schools in the District of Columbia this morning, one for white children and one for colored children. They are putting on a program for civilian defense. I have a plea from the military chairman of the waste paper conservation campaign, in which she tells me that everybody is being asked to conserve waste paper. Papers that lie about the house, or any package that comes in, should have its wrappings removed at once and put into a convenient place to turn over to the dealers who collect it and pay for it. They are getting help in their efforts from the Salvation Army and Boy Scouts. Anyone taking part in this campaign is doing a job for civilian defense.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
