
                  
                     Worcester, Mass.WORCESTER, Mass., Thursday—At noon yesterday, I went to the Girl Scout practice house for lunch. Mrs. Arthur Choate of New York City, Mrs. Frederick BrooksBrooke of Washington, and many other Washington Girl Scout executives were there. The photographers who took our pictures, left with the odor of freshly baked rolls in their nostrils and I feel sure they would have liked to remain to eat.
Certainly the home making group here is doing very well, for they served us with a perfect souffle, even though I saw them obliged to open the oven door and keep it open for the benefit of the photographers. I trembled for the souffle's success!
We talked over the new program of work and I was enormously interested in the comprehensive field from which these girls may choose. I like the idea that, after they reach the age of 14, they no longer work for badges, but to obtain a greater skill in any one of the fields which they have tried out and find especially enjoyable.
When the King and Queen of England are over here, the Girl Scouts hope to have some part in their entertainment wherever they go, for the Royal Princesses are members of the Girl Guides.
In the afternoon I received over a thousand young people who will graduate from various Washington schools. They were an attractive young group and moved by with great rapidity, which is a great comfort to anyone who has to stand and receive for a long period. Two other groups were also received.
In the evening I spoke for the National League of Women Voters, who are now holding their general council meeting in Washington. They are emphasizing a general program of expansion with the object of making democracy work by having each individual more conscious of his or her place in it.
We took the midnight train to New York City and, after a brief time at our apartment, during which we had our breakfast, we started off on a drive through Connecticut and Massachusetts. It is a beautiful season to visit this countryside, but I am still reminded of last year's storm when I see how many trees are missing along all these village streets. It takes so long to replace an old tree. It is a loss to more than a generation.
We lunched with some friends, Miss Esther Lape and Miss ElizabethReadElizabeth Read, at Westbrook, Conn., and proceeded to Worcester, Mass., where I give a lecture tonight.
I have just been looking through the manuscript of a book written by a young Washington lawyer, Mr. L. A. Roe, on the parole system. I would be impossible to deny the truth of what he says. He has illustrated his points so well with human interest stories, that I think everyone will find this book interesting and have a better understanding of the real reason for parole.
(Copyright, 1939, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
