
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK City, Wednesday—A group of us drove out last evening to the New York World's Fair to see the lighting, and I must say that I would not have missed the 9:00 o'clock playing of the fountains, even for the very good dessert which we were obliged to forego.
I have seen the fireworks and fountains in action at Versailles and am familiar with other displays of this kind but, for the first time, they have found a way here to keep the color in the water right to the top of the spray and it adds much to the general effect. They control the rise and fall by the music and the whole thing is really breathtakingly lovely. Of course, it is still too cold, so the trees and flowers are not sufficiently out as yet to get the full effect of the beautiful landscaping.
Many exhibits are not yet finished and I think that the rest of this month will probably be needed before everything gets to the point of perfect operation.
There is much of interest to be seen now, however, and no one should go to this Fair with the idea that one or two visits will satisfy their curiosity. The exhibits which we glanced at last night are on a scale which makes one realize how much there is to see. I was fascinated by the great cone in the Ford Building which shows how the products of the soil tie up with the products of industry. It is so graphically done that any child could understand it.
Near the gas industries exhibit, is a charming little house which includes many gas appliances of interest to the housewife. Both the General Electric and Westinghouse Companies have arresting exhibits which catch the eye. The Railroad Building will continue, I think to draw crowds, for I wanted to get out myself to look at each of the different trains. Even the part of this Fair which is planned just for entertainment is going to be worth whileworthwhile, for the entertainments will be good. Last night we used the little electrically operated chairs, but there are other equally pleasant modes of transportation. The part of the Fair which is labelled "Children's World", made me want to stop and play! I noticed many grown people on the merry-go-round and I know that on some future occasion I shall succumb to the lure of youth and do the same. My brother was deeply disappointed because we did not go through Macy's Toyland.
We all came home about 11:30 and felt that we had had a very delightful evening.
I am busy all day today with appointments and meetings, but I hope to go to the outdoor sculptors' show and, after the speech tonight, Miss Thompson and I will return to Washington.
(Copyright, 1939, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
