
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—I came back to Washington by plane this afternoon in order to attend the party given by the Washington Newspaper Guild for the purpose of raising money to send delegates to the National Newspaper Guild Convention, and for the benefit of Army and Navy Relief. They are to show the movie, "The Invaders."
Washington is at its most beautiful at this time. All the flowering shrubs are out and the spring flowers are everywhere. One cannot help but be impressed by the beauty of this capital of a great country.
In some ways it reminds me very much of Paris, and yet it has its own personality as all cities have. If the war comes close to Washington, it may destroy some of the things which have been so carefully built up through the past few years. I think the effect on many of us will be to augment our determination to see that such wasteful destruction of things of beauty, as has gone on all over the world, never occurs again in history.
I have just received a letter telling me that the League of Nations Association is making a great effort to enlist new members now. They are not suggesting that we subscribe to any blueprint of machinery for the after-war period. They frankly state that what was once thought to be satisfactory machinery for settling international questions, will probably not be so considered today. However, they do feel that since we must take an active part in world affairs, our people should be kept more informed than ever before about what is happening in the world and be ready to act with knowledge, where so many years ago they failed to act because of lack of knowledge.
The retail stores of our country are taking seriously their responsibility for selling War Savings Stamps. Over a million retail stores are now offering these stamps for sale and have imposed upon themselves a quota for one billion dollars for the year 1942. On Monday, May 4th, they will launch a nationwide campaign urging the public, when paying for it'sits purchases, to take a part of it'sits change in War Savings Stamps.
This is no short campaign, for they are dedicating themselves to continue it for the duration of the war! It seems to me that every public spirited citizen will be more than glad of this way of taking part in the nation's saving plans. If all of us do such little things as these, even though they seem unimportant at the time, they will add up to big results in the long run.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
