
                  
                     Boston, Mass.BOSTON, Monday—When we reached the home of Miss Read and Miss Lape at Westbrook, Conn., yesterday, Miss Lape and I had a half hour's exercise before lunch. We also walked over to see the log cabin built out of the logs they salavagedsalvaged from trees blown down in the hurricane. These log houses, set some distance from the main houses, will be good places for those who want complete seclusion.
I find that almost all people who do any work requiring concentration, always look for some place a little more secluded than the one they have at the moment. They acquire a new place and, before long, all their friends appropriate it and it no longer is that secluded place of which they dreamed.
To my shame, I must record that I was politely but firmly cautioned by a very nice looking policeman that I was driving too fast for a crowded section of the road. Since I usually poke along and am passed by car after car, it seemed ironical that I should have speeded up in the wrong place. I realized he was right and was humbly grateful for my admonition and felt myself extremely fortunate at getting off so lightly.
Coming into Boston in the dark I lost my way and was quite sure I was on the wrong parkway. Finally, I did discover that I was on Boylston Street. At a garage, I was told that, if I kept on, I would eventually come to the Common where I could turn off for the Statler Hotel. This I did and, on arrival, found that I had kept Mrs. McNamara and twenty loyal Democrats waiting for half an hour.
I had so little time left in which to dress, that I could only ask them to come up and shake hands and chat for a minute. It was a pleasure to see them, particularly the younger members of the group, who were as pretty and attractive youngsters as one could wish to see.
I dressed rather hurriedly, because I was warned that the papers wished to take a photograph before we went to dinner. Mr. Louis Kirstine called for me and we went down a few minutes after 7:00 to find the Governor with two Mrs. Saltonstalls, one his wife and one his mother; the Mayor and his wife, Mr. Charles Francis Adams and many other people already assembled. This was the opening dinner for the yearly drive of the Jewish United Charity Fund. Judging by the enthusiasm of those present, I feel sure they will have no difficulty in raising the money they need.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, by UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE)
