
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—There is a further effort which can be made, I think, to help both labor and management to face the present needs of war production. The Governmentgovernment, as represented by its leadership in Congress, has the opportunity to do one important thing. If they pass legislation and make the people secure in the knowledge that these laws are actually being implemented, and that no citizen need fear if he continues in his present wartime job, that he will not have adequate coverage during a period of unemployment following the closing of his war plant and the reconversion to civilian use, there will be less unrest among the workers.
In addition, an assurance that transportation and opportunity for new work is now being planned for in every section of the country by industry and labor jointly, with the knowledge and cooperation of the government, would vastly strengthen and hearten the people in their war production jobs. The carrying out of the provisions of the Baruch report as to methods of reimbursement and disposal of surpluses would give management its needed sense of security. This is the pattern of cooperation that the citizens must see functioning in order to do their jobs with quiet minds in these crucial days.
Like everybody else, I am spending more time than usual reading the papers and listening to the radio these days, which is really not conducive to accomplishing much work.
I did, however, go up to the Senate office building yesterday afternoon to be present at the ceremony when the committee which had been appointed to write the account of what had happened to the Jews in Poland, presented its completed work in the form of "The Black Book of Polish Jewry," to Senator Wagner, Representative Bloom, Representative Celler and Mr. Michael W. Straus, first assistant secretary of the Interior Department.
I hope that many people will see this book. The pictures speak more vividly than the written word. It is a horrible book, a book which explains the terrible statistics of the martyrdom of the Jews in Warsaw, and makes one ashamed that a civilized race anywhere in the world could treat other human beings in such a manner.
In the evening my daughter, her husband and I were with the President when he read the prayer in which he hoped the nation would join him. It is a good prayer to read and reread in these coming days, and I think he is right in saying that instead of one day of prayer, we must keep on praying day by day until the long march to Berlin has been accomplished.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
