
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—I did not mention yesterday that the
Prime Minister of Australia, Mrs. Curtin, President-elect and Senora
Dede Picado and I had lunch with the President at my husband's vacation
residence in the South. I was extremely glad to have the opportunity
to meet the man who will be at the head of the Costa Rican government
in the near future, and I am sorry that his stay in this country will
be so short.
I look forward, however, to the chance to talk with him further
when he and his charming wife come to tea tomorrow. Senora Dede
Picado speaks only Spanish but I was glad to find that I could understand
her when she said a few words to me! I doubt if I shall
ever have courage enough to launch forth in Spanish myself. It needs
the assurance of youth, I think, to become fluent or even to speak
hesitatingly in a new language.
The President-elect of Costa Rica speaks Spanish, Polish (his
mother was Polish)Polish), French and English, so there are very few parts
of the world in which he would have to be silent.
Ever since the story was published telling of something which the
President is supposed to have done for a particular soldier, the
White House has been deluged with appeals—over the telephone, by
telegraph and by mail, so I think it is only fair to many people all
over the country to tell them the real procedure in any case that
comes to the attention of the White House.
Obviously, neither the President nor I can direct that anything
is to be done or not done. That must remain in the hands of the department
heads and the people under them in whose jurisdiction the
particular case may fall. Whenever a letter comes to either of us,
we send it over to someone who we think can not only investigate
the case, but who is able to find out whether the department can do
anything about it.
There are many cases which in themselves are entitled to consideration,
but because of military necessity, or special difficulties
or needs, can notcannot be considered. Sometimes it may be possible to do
something for one person, and the case of another person whose cause
is just as good may not be handled because of outside considerations
which are greater than those of any individuals involved.
In war time, general considerations always come first because it
is the whole situation that is most important and not the individual.
But the individual is helped whenever possible. Anyone who asks
either the President or myself for help on any subject must realize
that the appeal has to go through the regular channels and that the
results desired may or may not be achieved. The decision will rest
with responsible people in charge of that particular activity and not
with us.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
