
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday—I flew quite comfortably to Auburn., N. Y., on Friday in a little seaplane which landed on Owasco Lake. As we looked down, there seemed to be no possible way of getting up to the dock, but we finally saw an open lane and taxied in quite easily.
From 11:00 o'clock on, the day was busy. Mr. Aubrey Williams was there and together we visited the NYA grounds, buildings and shops. The plant is certainly a good one, but the best of plants will mean little unless the boys have the right spirit. The head of the council, who was my guide, came down from Middletown, N. Y.,unremarkable, and seemed to be a fine young man well equipped to fill his position as leader.
The girl'sgirls' resident project is situated in a delightful house with ample grounds. It is not very far away from the boys', which makes it possible for the girls to take part of their training in the kitchen and dining room of the boys' project. The boys work here in three shifts, so the meals have to be served here from 5:00 o'clock in the morning through until 11:00 o'clock at night.
I think this NYA center should be one of the best training centers in the Statestate, and I am very happy to have had a part in its dedication.
We flew home and were in a fog the last part of the way, so I was surprised when we came down to find that we had actually reached Poughkeepsie, though we had not seen the ground for some time. I was home at my cottage for an 8:00 o'clock supper.
Yesterday we had a belated birthday party for my brother. He has a great many warm friends and they gathered together here from as far west at as St. Louis, Missouri. Mr. and Mrs. George Bye, and Mr. and Mrs. Robert Deans were responsible for some very original entertainment, including the importation of the Gay Nineties Quartette.
All of our guests were gone by 4:30, but since I was expecting my cousin, Mrs. Hall Rathbone, and her two sons, I put off going in for my second swim until their arrival. The weather was cool and clear yesterday afternoon and I could almost feel a suggestion of autumn as we sat out on the porch in the evening. I know, however, that this is a little premature and that by next week I shall be groaning about the heat.
We had quite a large picnic lunch today, at which the group gathered together violated all the rules that I was taught in my youth. We had a good time as a group, and yet none of us knew beforehand whether we had anything in common or not.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
