
                  NEW YORK, Monday
                     —Miss Laura Delano came down to see us last evening, bringing with her Jill, one of our red setters whom she has taken back into her kennels for a time. She is showing her and hopes to win some prizes.
It was quite interesting to see how reluctant the dog was to leave. She ran all over looking for the children and my daughter and son-in-law, smelt at their clothes and seemed quite unhappy not to find them in the house. They had all gone to New York so as to be at school and at work this morning. At last Jill found her brother, Jack, they licked each other all over, and seemed so happy to be together again. I really felt that I had to console Jack when Jill was whisked away in Miss Delano's car and he was left with no one to play with.
I wonder if dog's memories are long enough for them to realize that every five days their own people come back to them and that the intermediate days have to be lived through? I hope so, otherwise each time the separation must seem final!

                  Mrs. Scheider, Miss Cook and I left the country early this morning and I have been dashing around doing a number of personal errands and seeing a few personal friends.
A very interesting letter came to me the other day from an old friend of my aunt, Mrs. Douglas Robinson. She told me of a charity which she has carried on through these years of the depression and made an appeal which I am going to pass along to my readers. If she were not an old friend, I should not feel justified in doing it.
It appears that many people have been unable to pay for lenzeslenses and are going without eyeglasses which might make it possible for them to read or to sew or to engage in certain occupations. They simply can not afford new glasses. If all of us who have old glasses stuck away somewhere would find them and send them to Mrs. Arthur Terry they could be fitted to the many people that she can contact and it would mean renewed activity, comfort and happiness for many of them.
I pass this along to you because I think there must be people who find themselves in the same situation that I do. I have a drawer full of glasses which at different times the children have workworn. As their eyes changed or they outgrew them, they have been put away with the idea we always have that some time the things we can not use today may be useful again!

