
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Wednesday—Yesterday afternoon went quietly on its way. Some of us took a walk and returned to the big house for tea, where we found Johnny and AnnaAnne and their little dachshund, "Percy",," had arrived from Boston. I think what I enjoy most about these "historic" occasions is that they bring together what family there is within reach, and we sometimes hear by telephone, at least, the voices of the rest of the family.
Quite a large group came to a picnic supper at the cottage, but by 9:00 o'clock we were back at the big house. We sat around radios in the different rooms and received news from the news services and from the various people who telephoned to the President.
About midnight a larger crowd than usual came from Hyde Park with a band and torches and wonderful placards. The President went out to greet them. Later he had to go out a second time, because all the cars had not arrived soon enough for everyone to have a glimpse of him the first time.
Late in the night, John Boettiger called from Seattle, Washington. We talked with him and with Anna, and afterwards with James and Elliott. Anna told me that our eldest grandchildren had been so concerned that they had decided to prepare them in case of defeat, but the children looked so dejected that nobody was happy until they heard that the verdict was victory.
To children, of course, it is just a case of winning a campaign. To the rest of us, I think, it is rather terrifying, for a great confidence shown you 'yby a people of a great nation is something to make men proud and grateful, but at the same time it is a heavy responsibility.
The returns seem to indicate a vote of real confidence, which must mean that the people of the nation approve of the domestic policies as well as the course charted in our foreign relations.
It was a vigorous fight and now that it is over, for the sake of the country as a whole, let us hope that those who have had to accept a verdict with which they did not agree, will help in every way to carry out the will of the people, having faith in the great common sense of the electorate. All of us, whatever our political party, love the United States and know that we must work together in the difficult years before us. In our hearts there must be gratitude that we live in a country where the will of the people can be expressed and where no one is afraid to vote and speak according to his beliefs.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
