
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—Yesterday was a busy day because, as usual,
there seemed to be plenty of work waiting on our desks when we came
in. Some young people came to lunch. Among them was Sergeant John
Carey, a member of a Marine Corps dive bomber crew, who is back here
on furlough after many months in the Pacific. I noted four stars on
his service ribbon, but he was as modest as could be and glowed with
pride over the achievements of his older brother, Mr. James M.B. Carey,
secretary-treasurer of the CIO. It was a kind of mutual admiration
society which was pleasant to see.
At two-thirty I went out to Walter Reed Hospital to attend a discussion
group meeting which has been started out there by the patients.
Mrs. Bradley Dewey, wife of the RubberrubberDirectordirector, is in charge. Those
who are in bed in the wards can listen over the loud speaker
connections and they can send in questions. These were of a general
nature and covered many subjects yesterday, but I think that as they
go on, they will find it necessary to take up one or two subjects
each day, and will have people there who know those particular subjects
very well.
I found myself promising to look certain questions up and get
detailed answers for the meeting next Thursday. I am happy to see this
being done in the hospitals, because in hospitals men have time to
think about the problems of the future, and that is where they should
also be able to obtain exact information on any points affecting
them personally.
Last night I went to the final meeting of the Inter-American
Commission of Women at the Pan-American Union Building. It was an
interesting meeting and one which showed very clearly that the women
of the Americas can work together and accomplish real results. All
those who had attended the conferences felt that women should be included
in the groups now making plans for the future. If that does
happen, I know there will be an increasing flow of information to
the women of our various countries which will heighten our mutual
sense of responsibility for the future.
I am interested to find that St. Louis University is now
sponsoring an activity which may be of interest to a number of
people who are completely home-bound. The university departments of
marketing and the school of commerce and finance have set up as a
permanent activity, the checking of radio programs by home-bound
people throughout this country. After the war, it is hoped to make
this a worldwide operation. An activity of this kind should give
work and interest to handicapped people and should mean an improvement
in radio programs in regard to accuracy and presentation.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
