
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—On Friday evening, I spoke on the radio here
for the Treasury Department, and then attended two celebrations of
Pan-American Day. The first was held at the Labor Department Auditorium.
Many government workers who have an interest in South and Central
America because of their work in the Coordinator's Office and
the State Department were present.
Afterwards I went to a concert at the Pan AmericanPan-American Building, which
was attended by many of the diplomats. The young pianist from Cuba,
Lieutenant Jorge Bolet, played, and I enjoyed again his great artistic
gift. Our own Navy Band orchestra is excellent, and I am sure that
everyone had a very pleasant evening. The Secretary of State spoke
over the air and I hope we will all heed his plea for unity among the
nations in this hemisphere. It is of vital importance to us and to all
our neighbors.
I realize that my interest in all things Pan-American is greater
since I have had the pleasure of meeting more Americans from among our
neighbors. I certainly was happy to have an opportunity to welcome the
members of the Inter-American Commission of Women here at tea on
Saturday afternoon.
I believe that this is one of the largest representative gatherings
they have had, and the ladies are all leaders in their own countries.
Their particular interest is how the women of the different AmericasspellingAmericans
can cooperate to bring about better understanding throughout the
world after the war, and how to foster better cooperation in this
hemisphere which may be of use to the women and children of the world.
Last evening the delegates to the Association for Childhood Education
Conference met in the east room, and I was very glad to hear
Dr. Margaret Mead's address. She brought out a point which I think we
must not forget. She said that this country of ours is unique because
we have always expected every generation of young people to do better
than their parents. Therefore, our approach to our schools has been
somewhat different because it was through the schools that we expected
this opportunity to come to our young people.
In nearly all the countries of the world, parents know more than
their children and even in some portions of our own country that is
the case! By and large, however, we take it for granted that our
children are going ahead of their elders, and will know more than their
elders have known. That creates a different attitude and gives us a
different approach towards our youth. In short, it is what makes us
"the country of opportunity."
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
