
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Tuesday—Late Sunday afternoon I came to New York City and the President returned to Washington. I felt rather guilty that I could not be in New York City in time to join the Mayor for the broadcast which opened the series on "Unity at Home—Victory Abroad," which he had inaugurated.
I spoke from the Library at Hyde Park, however, with my husband listening in, which was a very curious situation, for I have often sat listening to him, but I can notcannot remember when he sat listening to me.
The fact that I could speak from there gave us several more hours in the country together and I was happy not to miss the pleasant, leisurely luncheon out of doors and the good talk, which is one of the rare things which we enjoy when only a small company is gathered together. So much of the time one has to weigh one's words carefully and there are so many things one would like to ask about and discuss, which in the hurry of the average days slip out of one's mind.
New York City seemed warm when we stepped out of the train, but the apartment was cool. A kind friend took us to dine out of doors nearby, and in the evening I had a visit from another friend, which was a pleasure but covered some business as well. Yesterday I had a number of appointments.
Now that there are signs of things happening more rapidly on many fronts, people in far greater numbers are beginning to think of what should be done at home and abroad in the postwar period. They want to be useful, but so often they do not know what groups are at work, or what work has already been done. I think that is one of the main ways in which we can save time, if people who want to work can get together and not duplicate the work which has already been done.
I was interested in the interview with Mr. Frederick Libby and his proposed campaign for pacifist action this coming winter. His psychology seems to me rather poor, no army which is winning is in danger of wanting to make the same mistakes which history teaches it were made the last time. It will want victory this time to be complete.
People will want such measures taken as will insure the power of the nations that were forced to go to war to subdue the aggressor Axis powers. I am never keen on too much power for any one group of nations or any one nation, but I am very anxious to see a coming together of nations who have fought this war to insure a real effort to keep the peace in the years to come.
This work can notcannot be done by us alone. It can be done if we work together and increase the joint responsibility for making conditions throughout the world the kind which create contented people with hope in their hearts for happiness. Such people will not want to plan for death.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
