
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Monday—The weather is cold up here, but after a week of rain we are rewarded by an atmosphere which is clear and invigorating, with a sky so blue that the stars at night shine out brilliantly the way they sometimes do in the real winter months.
The little crescent moon, two nights ago, reminded me to look over my left shoulder and make a wish,wish. My wish, I am sure, is the same that every other woman in the United States has made. We pray that before too many moons pass, the young people whom we love will be able to celebrate the coming of peace.
In this connection, I have a note from the United Service OrganizationsOrganization, stating that they are receiving inquiries from men overseas as to why the USO clubs do not follow them outside the Western Hemisphere. The USO says that the decision as to where they shall operate lies with the Army and Navy. They operate on the Government's request, just the way the Red Cross does.
The Red Cross has been asked to take over all the work in the European area, the Southwest Pacific, India, China and the Near East. The USO functions in the United States, Alaska, the Canal Zone, the Caribbean area, the east coast of South America, Bermuda, New Foundland and Hawaii.
USO camp shows, however, operate in all areas where service men are stationed. This, of course, is again at the request of the armed forces, because, important as that entertainment is, priorities have to be decided on by military necessity. Sometimes, guns, ammunition and food may be more necessary than entertainment.
I am receiving a number of inquiries in my mail about prisoners both in German and Japanese hands. It is possible for the Red Cross to find out certain things about prisoners in Germany, but so far it has been almost impossible to get any information from Japan. The Japanese thmselvesthemselves do not seem very much interested in what happens to their own people.
They apparently have never considered the possibility that any might be taken prisoner, or that the treatment of prisoners is something which is governed by agreements entered into in times of peace. We can only hope that the Red Cross negotiations being carried on will eventually make it possible for us to know more about our people who, unfortunately, have fallen into Japanese hands.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
