
                  WASHINGTON
                     —My daughter, son-in-law and I went to see "Idiot's Delight" last night. It was an interesting performance and beautifully acted by Alfred Lunt and 
                     Lynne Fontaine
                  , but it left me with a feeling that Idiot's Delight manifested itself in many ways and I came out with a most discouragediscouraging feeling in spite of the wit and finished performance of the actors, which could not help but give you a pleasant evening.
We came down together on the midnight train to Washington and were pleasantly surprised to meet my young neice, Eleanor Roosevelt and her step-father Mr. John Cutter on the train. They were coming to spend Easter with us but I hadn't expected to see them until later to-daytoday. We all got off in high spirits this morning and after a jolly breakfast, I settled down to a desk full of mail while the others went off to ride. By noon, I was pretty well caught up and went off to an early luncheon with some friends. I dashed down to the station at one-fifteen to meet my husband and found myself waiting with the Vice President and most of the Cabinet. My husband arrived looking extremely well and in grand spirits, but on the way from the station, he told me that he was much concerned by the damage done in Gainesville, Georgia, which he visited on the way home. The Vice-President and I agreed that we could not remember a year in which the elements had played so many tricks, leaving so much disaster behind each freakish event.

                  My young neice
                   and I visited the Freer Gallery as she is interested in art, then from three-thirty on, the appointments have been continuing, ending with tea at five to which the British Ambassador and Lady Lindsey
                   brought Sir John and Lady Maffey and Mrs. Victor Mallet, whose husband is the Councilor for the Embassy. Sir John is Under Secretary for the Colonies and was once Governor General of the Sudan.
