
                  
                     Eastport, MaineEASTPORT, Maine, Tuesday—We discovered yesterday that war makes a considerable difference in the lives of the Canadian people. I wanted to buy what I could in Canada and need many things since forty people in a house require a good many more household goods than twenty. As usual, most of my kitchen utensils require replenishing also. Therefore, we took a large boat and went off in the morning at 9:00 o'clock. We left Mrs. Craig in Eastport to be motored to Bangor and, unbelievable as it may seem, to reach Washington by air late that night. Think of going from the coolness of Maine to the heat of Washington in less than twelve hours!
We proceeded up the bay under rather gray skies, which was perhaps fortunate, since all of us got a wind burn, but not the uncomfortable sunburn which, we might otherwise have had. After buying all we could in St. Andrews, we went across to a beach on a little island, cooked ourselves some scrambled eggs in the old frying pan, which has gone on so many picnics up here, and went back to St. Andrews to collect our purchases and to buy some lobsters in the pound, for one can not buy them now on the island. I never saw so many alive in one place before and, for once, I think we shall have all the lobsters we can eat today at one meal.
We intended to go on to St. Stephen to buy the things we could not get in St. Andrews, but they are on what I call double daylight saving time in Canada, which is one hour ahead of our daylight time. We realized that we would be too late to find shops open, so we started back to Eastport. Just to make things seem thoroughly familiar, the engine overheated on the way back and we stopped. I had visions of lying helpless in the bay for some time, but after administering some nice cool salt water, Captain Cline coaxed the engine into action again, and we finished our shopping in Eastport.
One always forgets certain things and I am sure we shall have to do some more shopping. We are busy today putting everything we have bought into place.
Senator Harrison's death came as a shock to me. He has been a figure in the Senate for so many years. He will be sadly missed. I always found him such a charming and courteous person. It is sad to see thesethose figures one has grown to count on in public life move off the stage, but I suppose we should be grateful for the many years they have been able to serve their country.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
