
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Sunday—Yesterday morning I went to a meeting of The Youthbuilders, in Town Hall. Miss Sabra Holbrook seems to be developing some very thoughtful youngsters in this organization of school children. I was surprised that so many young people would sit so long and listen to speeches. They tackled problems which many of their elders would probably feel they knew little or nothing about. It is good training for future citizens, however.
Mr. Newbold Morris whispered to me that one 8-year-old boy had come to him and told him that he "had invented a marvelous anti-aircraft gun, but for some reason he could not get the War Department to consider it."
Next, I went to the broadcasting station, and for two hours and a half, we worked in preparation for a broadcast. Some very remarkable stories of youngsters were told, and then I answered some questions which they asked.
The first question on the program was asked by a young paratrooper, wounded in Guadalcanal. He is slowly regaining the use of his right wrist at home. He was a nice boy and made friends immediately with a little blind girl, who came to tell us that the young dancer who makes such a hit in the show, "Star and Garter," taught her ballet dancing on Saturday afternoons.
I left there at 3:00 o'clock and took the bus onLexington Avenue to go to the Doctor's Hospital. I thought I was seated inconspicously, when a man leaned over and asked if I wouldn't please give him an autograph, which I was weak enough to do. My backbone stiffened with the second request and I thought that was over. Then a nice, elderly woman recognized me and practically told everyone around us who I was.
Then the lady next to me finally got up enough courage to inquire if I "really was Mrs. Roosevelt." She then told me she was driven home from Paris by the war and that she found this country very different from what it used to be, but that she did have great respect for the way my husband bears his burdens.
Last evening I took some people to see "The Doughgirls." It is light and amusing and so openly risque that one wonders if the old theory, that sin is alluring because it is mysterious, is completely given up. In any case, there was no mystery about this and nobody had much sense of sin. The girls were pretty and the audience seemed to enjoy the play. We came home to a serious discussion, which made a good contrast to the earlier part of the evening.
Today, after seeningseeing Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt, and visiting the hospital again, I shall be on my way back to Washington.
(COPYRIGHT 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
