
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—Sunday afternoon proved to be quite busy.
At one o'clock, over a hundred capitol page boys came to lunch. After
lunch we saw some movies of one of our carriers, and then they stayed
on for another movie and a visit through the White House rooms.
I went out a little before four, to receive with Mrs. Robert
Patterson at a tea which the "Jangos" gave in her house for the WAC
officers in Washington. You might like to know about the Jangos. Those
letters stand for Junior Army-Navy Guild Organization. These are the
wives and daughters of junior officers and they have banded themselves
together to do a great variety of war work, helping the hospitals here
and filling in wherever they see a chance for being useful. They are
young women with families, and therefore they are not able to do full
time jobs. But they keep usefully busy.
The tea yesterday was a great success, and they did all the work
of looking after the guests and seeing that they were fed and made to
feel at home.
Afterwards, I stopped to see an exhibition of paintings by Miss
Alice Barney at the Arts Club, and then went to the Foundry Methodist
Church and met with a group of their young people.
We had a rather late supper, after which we were shown the Army
movie, "The Negro Soldier in the War." It is a very moving record of
achievement, and I hope the Negro soldiers will feel that it is a
recognition of their outstanding service. It should bring one very
evident fact home to all of us—the fact that this war is fought by
all Americans and not by any group of them, and that it will be better
fought if we fight it together as Americans and not as divided
groups.
At noon today, I went to the Woman's National Democratic Club to
speak on the Caribbean trip.
I am so glad to be able to agree with Mr. Pegler on something he
wrote in his column which appeared here on March 24th. I heartily
agree with him that in the case of a simple person like myself, there
is no reason whatsoever why there should be any accompanying cars on
any trips which I take within any city or in any part of our country
or abroad.
I shall be most grateful to him if he will keep on telling the
various people who meet me and go about with me that one car is all
we need and that escorts of any kind are absolutely unnecessary. I
have been contending that for a long time and it is a joy to find an
ally who may command more cooperation than I have obtained in the
past. I am so grateful to Mr. Pegler for bringing this point to the
attention of all, so they will feel no obligation in the future to
make their welcome elaborate.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
