
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—This has been a busy day. Mr. KoussevitskyKoussevitzky, who conducted the concert for the benefit of Russian Relief last night, and Mrs. Edward Watson, came to lunch. I was delighted to hear that he hopes to continue the music school at Stockbridge, Mass., this summer and already has 400 applications.
I was afraid that the tire shortage and similar problems might keep people from attending the concerts, but perhaps trains and busses can be used. Certainly, music-loving people will make every effort to be there, for there is no more delightful spot in which to enjoy music.
Two groups of young people, who are visiting Washington, were received during the afternoon. I only hope that these young people get a sense of the way in which everyone is working in Washington, for it will give them a realization of the need for their own participation in the war effort where they live.
At tea time, Dr. and Mrs. Edward Endicott Peabody came in, and it was a joy to see them both. Miss Ruth F. Woodsmall also came in to talk over her trip. She is leaving today on an extended tour to Mexico and South America to represent the YWCA. She spent much time before in Europe and the Far East and is familiar with the work done by the YWCA the world over.
The effort to make YWCA work more valuable to our neighbors to the south of us and to bring closer understanding between the Protestant organizations and all existing organizations now working in these countries, should be of great value in developing better understanding, especially among the women.
Miss Woodsmall is travelling by air and it was interesting to reflect how much a year has changed our point of view. We used to think that air travel, especially over the ocean, was somewhat hazardous. Today it is looked upon as being far safer than any passenger steamer.
Last night, Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt, who is staying with us, Mrs. Cameron Clark, Mr. Walter Thayer, Jr., and Mr.Mrs. David Bruce, came to dine with me, and then we went to the concert given for Russian Relief. We enjoyed every minute of it, and I was so happy I could be back in Washington to attend it.
I am returning to New York City this morning, for I am going to be busy there for several days, sorting and packing.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
