
                  
                     ClarksburgCLARKSBURG, W. Va., Friday—I left Washington last night on the night train and got off at Clarksburg, W. Va., this morning to visit the Naval Cadet Flight School at Jackson's Mill. I leave around noon to go to Pittsburgh, Pa. and from there to New York City tonight, but as the day has hardly begun and much of it will be interesting, I shall have to wait until tomorrow to tell you about it.
This gives me the opportunity to mention today one or two things which have been on my mind, though I have not had the space to write about them. One is the new venture of Thethe American Association on Indian Affairs. Mr. Carl Carmer has volunteered to edit a magazine called "The American Indian".Indian." His editorship insures good material, and there is interest in the magazine, for most of the work will be done by volunteers. They really care about the groups of Indians which we still have dotted throughout our country, and they want to see them understood and well handled and given a fair chance in this land which once was theirs.
In this first issue there is an interesting article on the Rio Grande River flood control problem which anyone who has travelled along that river will be interested in reading. I hope that many of my readers will find this new magazine worthwhile.
In the day that I spent in Detroit, Mich. some time ago, it is quite obvious that I could not do all the things which I wanted to do, even if my train had not been three and a half hours late! One of the things I most regretted passing by was a glimpse of the exhibit in the lobby of the PublicpublicLibrarylibrary. They are doing some outstanding work on race relations and in the American Library Association's September bulletin there is an interesting account of it by Mr. Ralph A. Ulveling.
Survey Associates has just sent me its special number of "Survey Graphic" on American-Russian relations. One little fact should be stressed more often. How often does one think of the fact that our country and Russia are only thirty miles apart at one particular point.
Since after the war there is to be great development in Siberia, we had better study that strange land which has seemed to most of us a frozen and unproductive area. It apparently has many resources which must be developed in the future.
Perhaps it is through their art that we will gradually come to understand the Russian people. Those I have met I have liked, and they certainly show traits of character which are similar to our own. They can adjust to changing conditions just in the way that we do. Is that a trait of youthful nations, or does it simply mean that we both have great virility and resiliency? No matter what happens to us we seem to come bobbing up again ready to cope with the new situation.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
