
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, N. Y.—I flew back to New York Friday night from Boston, feeling that my two young people would be better without an extra person to think about. Anne's mother is with her and there is nothing more I could do.
It was very pleasant soto slip into my own bed at Hyde Park late at night and to wake up to a very beautiful world Saturday morning. Immediately after breakfast on Saturday morning, I went over to see my mother-in-law and to talk over certain things about her preparations for next week's royal visit. Sometimes I cannot help wondering whether royal vistors ever have the same kind of qualms about the people with whom they are going to stay, that we ordinary mortals have. I always wonder whether I shall have the right clothes and whether my hosts will find having people attached to the President's family more of a burden than a joy.
The young Royalties, however, must realize by now how anxious everybody is to see them. The Queen has won the hearts of her Canadian subjects and many Americans by what they consider her courage and informality. The fact that she steps down into the crowds and that the King goes with her has, I think, made a tremendous impression.
I don't doubt that those in charge of the safety of these two wish that they were easier to handle, but their actions are certainly making them very popular. This country as a whole feels great respect for the young King and Queen and everywhere you hear words of praise for the King's quiet and dignified bearing.
I could not help feeling very sorry for them as I read of the Queen Mother's accident. It must have been such a shock. Their anxiety as to how she will recover from it must still be great, but Royalties are not expected to allow their feelings to interfere with their duties. These long journeys when children are left behind must have many moments of anxiety.
I can well remember when the President was Assistant Secretary of the Navy and we used to go on trips to various Navy yards, how on the last few nights before we reached home, I always used to imagine everything in the world had happened to the children, even though I knew perfect care had been taken of them. Perhaps even a Queen may have the same worries.
Everyone has asked me whether all the arrangements are complete. I am glad to be able to say that, when I leave here Tuesday morning, I think all I can do for the comfort of our guests will have been done. Of course, an old house cannot be changed and my mother-in-law does not often entertain so many guests in her home, but she is enjoying her preparations very much. We hope everyone will be comfortable and happy.
(distributed by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
