
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Thursday—Tuesday morning, I had the great joy of
breakfasting with our oldest son, and he had seen our youngest boy
who is now somewhere at sea. It is exciting when a loved one appears
out of space, so to speak, and even though you do not get much
opportunity to talk, except at meals or in the middle of the night,
since the rest of the day must be spent at the department, a glimpse
gives you a chance to renew contacts and hear a great deal of news
which never gets to you in letters.
On Tuesday afternoon I went to the annual Thrift Shop meeting
and enjoyed a most interesting program. I returned home in time to
see Mrs. Bernard Ryan from Albion, N. Y., who was in Washington for
a day or two, and to greet my guests, who spent the night with me.
They were six ladies representing church women and educators from
different parts of the country, and were deeply interested in the
war and its future effect on this country and the world.
After dinner, we saw the films which the President of Guatemala
sent by me to my husband. Unfortunately my husband did not have time
to see them before he left, but he will when he returns. I know he
will be interested in the emphasis which is evidently being put on
the improvement in education and health in Guatemala, as well as on
training for military service. Some of their Indian contingents are
particularly interesting as they wear native costume of the region
with one or two modern military touches.
On Wednesday I took the midday train to Newark, N. J. and spoke
at the Urban League Dinnerdinner there. This is one of the organizations
working throughout our country for better racial understanding between
white and colored people. Because people of both races work
together, I think it achieves very good results in many places. The
Newark report for the past year is extremely encouraging, particularly
from the industrial angle. This is the center of much industrial
employment. Highly skilled Negro workers have been accepted
and proved themselves valuable to industry and acceptable to their
fellow workers.
From far awayfaraway Butte, Montana, some high school girls have written
me that they think their age group might be used to make a real contribution
to the war effort if some older people would sponsor them.
They say that they know of young mothers who would gladly give several
hours of volunteer service daily if their little children could
be taken care of in places furnished by the community. The girls
feel they could care for the children and do the necessary work after
school hours. This doesn't seem such a bad idea, though of course it
would have to be organized and supervised by older people. It would
have the advantage of giving an opportunity for patriotic service to
a group of young people who do not feel that their abilities are
being used at present.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
