
                  
                     NEW YORK, Tuesday—It seems unbelievable that the Canadian and American armies have now joined forces and that our troops are now on the Rhine. The day of doom is drawing closer, and one cannot help wishing that the German army and the German people will accept the inevitable and save both their own young people and others from the bloodshed of battle, not to speak of the sufferings of civilian populations which are being subjected to heavier and heavier daily bombings.
How trivial our daily round seems and yet our ordinary lives must go on, in spite of anxiety or fear!
Monday evening we went to see "playSnafu," and we certainly enjoyed Ronald Stevens as acted by Billy Redfield. He seemed completely natural, and as lines of boys and girls in Army and Navy uniforms came down to get their programs signed between acts, I looked at the boys from overseas and thought that quite a few of them might have gone through some of Ronald's experiences. I hope, however, that most families are behaving—both in anticipation of their son's return and at the time when he actually arrives—with a little more calm and naturalness than was achieved by Mr. and Mrs. Stevens.
This morning I went to Miss Selma Burke's studio to look at a head she has done of the President. Then a visit to the dentist and a lunch engagement with a small group of people.
In the afternoon I went to a meeting and tea at Mrs. Lash's house for the Wiltwyck School. This school needs more friends if, in the course of the next few years, it is going to lay a real pattern for the treatment of young delinquents. Since we are becoming more and more conscious of our obligation to the young people of our communities, I think if we can prove in one school that a child from bad surroundings—given the proper care—may be saved from real delinquency, we will have done something of value to the nation as a whole. Therefore, this school, which is entirely non-sectarian, has an interest, I think, not only for people in New York City but for people in other parts of the country who are interested in saving children from the need of spending years of their lives in reformatories and only too often, later, in prisons.
In the evening I am attending a dinner and returning to Washington by the midnight train.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
