
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—Yesterday afternoon I had an opportunity to see the newsreel pictures taken of the Yalta conference and of the visit to the President on an American warship made by King Farouk of Egypt, Haile Selassie, Emperor of Ethiopia, and King Ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia.
I finished a book last night by Albert Maltz, called "bookThe Cross and the Arrow." It is, I think, one of the most horrifying pictures of 1942 in Germany that I have read. I felt that human beings were caught in a horrible trap like rats, with no way out. It is well written, but if you want to sleep do not read it in the evening hours. I kept waking up all night with cold shivers.
I went out early this morning to attend the opening general session of the work conference on educational programs for veterans, with special reference to non-collegiate education. This is being held during the next three days under the auspices of the National Education Association, and I hope it will have some very tangible results.
On February 14 I received from Dr. Louis I. Dublin, of the American Red Cross, some rather interesting figures which you, who are interested in the nursing situation in our armed services, will want to know. According to this report, the "number of applications received by the American Red Cross throughout the country since the President's message is well over 12,000. During this same period, the number of nurses certified to the Army by us was 5,307. Some of these nurses applied prior to January, and so far in February they have placed orders on approximately 1000 more. The exact figure has not yet been released. Approximately 22 per centpercent of all applications received by us are for service in the Navy Nurse Corps, and Navy figures are in addition to the above."
I have received several letters lately from nurses in the Cadet Corps and I feel these young women deserve our warm appreciation. Many of those graduating are now offering their services for over- seasoverseas work; but even if they are only in training, they are doing a great deal to relieve the shortage of nurses in our civilian hospitals.
There is a volunteer group of men in New York City, and I think in many other cities also, that has been working at various hospital occupations, not requiring training, in the hours after their regular jobs end. Many of these men are older men, and some of them hold executive positions during the day; and probably for many years, they have not done the kind of menial jobs which they accept in these evening hours. They, too, are doing something for purely patriotic reasons and should receive commendation and admiration from us.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
