
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—The President and I were delighted to welcome the Princess Juliana and Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands, again to the White House. They came in the late afternoon with Mr. and Mrs. Van TetsVanteps. Mr. John Gunther joined us on the White House porch for tea. In a busy day, it was a pleasant break which my husband rarely enjoys.
We had a few guests for dinner and then enjoyed a short concert given by an A. Cappellaa cappella choir from Monongahela High School in Morgantown, West Virginia. Congressman Jennings Randolph asked me to let them sing here while they were on tour in this part of the country. I confess that I had not expected to find them a very good choir, but they turned out to be excellent and gave us all a very delightful three-quarters of an hour.
Afterwards, the President took Princess Juliana and Prince Bernhard up to his study for a talk. Some of the rest of us who are interested in the International Student Service, met to talk over the Leadership Institute, which is to be held in North Carolina this summer. It ought to be a very interesting few weeks for the young people.
Because of an appointment which I made long ago, I have to leave our guests this afternoon to speak at the YWCA in New York City to a group of industrial girls. Tomorrow I have promised to go to Sarah Lawrence College for lunch and a panel discussion in the afternoon. In the evening I am to meet with the students of the New York School of Social Work at the close of their day's session.
The juvenile delinquency problem in New York City has caused real concern among the social workers, who feel there should be no cutting down in trained workers dealing with young people. In the big cities like New York and Chicago, there should be recognition also of the work done by qualified and trained Negro people, because they are much needed to help the young people in their districts.
I was happy to see that Mrs. Charlotte E. Anderson, wife of a Negro practicing physician in Harlem, had been elected last week to the Board of Trustees of the Community Service Society in New York City. This is a step forward to a better understanding of juvenile delinquency problems in the city.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
