
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—I read not long ago a most interesting speech delivered in Congress by Representative Walter H. Judd, on the background of our whole relations with Japan. It stopped just short of his final conclusions, his time having come to an end. I was, therefore, particularly glad yesterday to have an opportunity to invite him to lunch and to have him discuss the whole question.
He emphasizes the fact that, to some nationalities the realization that we, the white race, are not according them respect and equal treatment as a race, is even more important than anything we may do from an economic standpoint.
I have felt for a long time that this was a lesson we would have to learn before peace could be built on any firm foundation. People can not be judgedbyjudged by the color of their skin. Frequently a sense that others look down upon us forces us into doing foolish and evil things.
We can easily see that among our friends. I have known people to indulge in foolish extravagances, simply because they did not have enough self-assurance to feel that respect for them was not dependent on their material situation. I have known people to be disagreeable, because they were afraid if they were agreeable people would think they were currying favor.
Our psychologists have a long study before them in learning how to make some of us, who are rather arrogant, approach life with a humility which the Christian religion should teach us, but which few people seem to have unless they are absolutely self-confident.
Miss Harriet Elliott came to my press conference this morning and gave a most interesting report on the work of the women in selling War Stamps and Bonds. From my own observation, I think she has been able to enlist very capable women in various localities, who do this work with complete devotion and as conscientiously as though it were a full timefull-time paid job.
At 1:00 o'clock, I leave for Hartford, Conn., where the Women's Division of the Hartford Defense Council is holding a rally tonight.
I happened to notice the other day a window display in a shop at 461 Sixth Avenue, New York City, which a better citizens group, members of the League for Women Voters is running.
The display is interesting in itself and the shop is open from 4:00 to 6:00, five days a week. They distribute material on such subjects as isolationism, man powermanpower, lend lease, child labor and the like. I imagine the League is undertaking this in many communities and I think it is very valuable to the enlightenment of the average citizen.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
