
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—It was very interesting to get a glimpse of the new Congress and to watch the reaction to the President's speech on the floor and in the galleries. Because of my partial deafness I do not always hear every word of the speech, in spite of complete concentration. However, I find that with every speech that is worthwhile, one should read it several times in order to better understand its full meaning.
The President's uncle, Mr. Frederic Delano, went into the Capitol with me and as we went up in the elevator he remarked that each message seemed to have an increasing significance, beginning with the first one when we were facing an unparalleled economic struggle in this country, to the present one when in spite of our greater hopefulness in military fields we face an unknown future for which we will have to find a new solution. We are all adventuring in many different fields of thought and action.
After we left the Capitol I went directly to a meeting of the Council of Personnel Administration. Dr. Davenport was presiding and they interrupted their business to let me talk to them for a little while on the British war situation. Then I answered questions and was surprised to find that it was a quarter before three when I left.
A very interesting woman came to see me in the afternoon, Mrs. Mabel Farrington Gifford, who is in charge in California of the program for teaching children who have speech impediments. Mrs. Gifford is going to send me something about the methods and the results which they have obtained, so I shall write a little more about it later on.
Last night I attended the MarionMarian Anderson concert, given for Chinese relief. As every seat was filled in Constitution Hall, I am quite sure it was a successful financial undertaking. Miss Anderson's program was beautiful and she was certainly most enthusiastically received. It was a significant evening not only from the artistic point of view but from the social point of view.
I have had word from the War Activities Committee of the Motion LicturePicture Industry, which is sponsoring a United Nations Week beginning January 14 and continuing through January 20, that about 16,000 motion picture theaters will co-operatecooperate in cementing the friendly relations between our country and the Allied Nations and in raising funds for the relief committee of these nations. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer has prepared, under the direction of the theater committee, a special short subject, "You, John Jones." It will be shown in all these theaters and will be followed by a collection after each performance.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
