
                  
                     NEW YORK CITYNEW YORK, Sunday
                  —We had only a few of our children left with us at dinner on New Year's Eve. Those who were there, were very loyal and, in spite of of the attractions of outside parties, not only dined with us, but stayed with us until after midnight and then went off to have a final dance to usher in the New Year.
My husband meant to work, but was induced to stay and see "Tovarich" as a movie. I had seen it as a play and had enjoyed it, and not having caught up with accumulated mail, I decided to keep my impressions of the play. The President, however, so rarely has an opportunity to go to the theatre, that he enjoyed the movie very much.
Before midnight, we adjourned to his study, turned the radio on, stood with our glasses of egg-nogeggnog and waited to wish each other a Happy New Year on the stroke of midnight. Then everyone joined in singing "Auld Lang Syne." I had put in a call for Anna and John in Seattle earlier in the day and it came through about two minutes after midnight. When I answered the telephone, they could hear the last strains of "Auld Lang Syne" being sung and every member of the the family then wished them a Happy New Year.
My daughter said that though they were spending a quiet evening alone, she was really feeling much better, which was a very happy New Year's present.
Our party in Washington broke up yesterday. All the young people went up to New York to see some friends and family there on their way back to various colleges. I went up with them, but with quite a different purpose in view. I am going to put in a few days of rest, and then two days in New York doing a few things that must be done before the January social rush starts in Washington on the sixth.
Our trip up on the train was gay, but I was glad to reach my little apartment where my neice, Eleanor Roosevelt, is staying, and to have a glimpse of my brother and my nephew, Henry Roosevelt, and dine quietly with two old friends. I feel as though I had been on the move rather constantly in a hectic manner since the Wednesday before Christmas. Our time in Seattle of course, was peaceful and happy, but I will enjoy a few more quiet days before the full swing of Washington duties renews itself.
My mother-in-law and my sister-in-law, Mrs. J. R. Roosevelt, are remaining herhere until next week and I am happy to say they seem to be enjoying themselves. The President is so busy with his various speeches he can devote very little time to anyone before Congress opens again.
(Copyright, 1937, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
