
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday—Still reviewing my trip, I want to tell you
of my visit to Guatemala. The day we left Galapagos, we started in the
early morning and landed at a U. S. base on the coast of Guatemala. At
the post exchange there, the men had put up a sign over the door which
read: "The Home of Forgotten Men and 10,000 Vermin." The usual snakes
and insects abound, but our base is free of malaria.
A half hour's flight from the shore base brought us to Guatemala
City, five thousand feet above sea level. We could see high mountains
all around us and, below us, flat plateaus, with farms on top and
deep chasms dropping off.
On the less steep hillsides, the Indians, who are the farmers of
the mountain districts, build their huts and seem to find places to
grow what they need. These Indians are short, dark and stocky and, in
Guatemala City, they told me they were "good Indians." Each little
village has some custom of its own and some particular costume. In the
highlands, they wear kilts like the Scotch.
Guatemala City is very clean and attractive, with a delightful
climate. Most of the people are skilled in hand work. Guatemala abounds
in woods of all kinds and the carving one sees everywhere is very
beautifully done. The Guatemalans also do good silver and iron work,
and very interesting weaving, but the war makes it hard for them to
get the cotton, silk and wool which they use. The women require no
patterns, but weave almost from instinct, the art having come down from
mother to daughter.
The flying over the mountain peaks is none too safe and there have
been casualties among our fliers. The President of Guatemala himself
visited the first young fliers' graves and has put up a monument in
our United States cemetery, where Guatemalan and American flags fly
together. A white picket fence surrounds the plot, and shade trees
have been planted. It is a quiet and beautiful place on a hillside.
President and Mrs. Ubico showed me through the National Palace,
which houses all the departments of government. Many of the beautiful
things in the Palace, and in the city as well, have been brought from
the old capital, Antigua, which has been destroyed by an earthquake.
The people also make very beautiful tiles and, as you look down at the
various patios, the tiles blend with the many flowers and the little
fountains, making very attractive interiors.
General Brett took me to "Los Cipreses",Cipreses," which is a club run by
Guatemalan ladies for our service menservicemen. They will not permit the boys
to pay for anything because they want it to be like a real home. Once
a month, they give a dance, bringing all the food from their own
houses. I was glad that I happened to be there on the night of one of
those parties. The boys and girls were enjoying it, and a good Marimbamarimba
band was playing.
Madame Perez, who runs the club, made me taste her pies, which were
"like mother makes".makes." She kept reiterating, "I love your boys".boys." It is
quite evident that the boys return her affection and are grateful to
this white-haired lady who puts in not only time but her own money to
make this club a real home for them.
There are lounge rooms around a big central court. There is a
library with papers, magazines and a good radio. When we reached the
kitchen, the boy who was showing me around said: "There are always
bottles of soft drinks in the ice box, and you can always find something
to cook for yourself or to eat, just as you would at home." The
boys in Guatemala City may wish they were nearer the fighting zones
but, on the whole, their surroundings are among the pleasantest I saw
on my trip.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
