
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Monday—I heard four young American artists last night, Mr. Maurice Wilk, violinist; Miss Virginia Lewis, mezzounremarkable—-soprano, Mr. Emanuel Vardi, viola; and Miss Vivian Rivkin, pianist; in a concert at Town Hall, arranged and conducted by Mr. Dean Dixon with the New York Chamber Orchestra.
All the artists were excellent and the program was delightful. We should be thankful that, in our country, we can still give young artists an opportunity to be heard. The arts are the one avenue not blocked by the hate which comes with war. I think we should give every art expression our support whenever we possibly can.
The weather the last two days has been perfectly delightful. The voices of the children playing in Washington Square float in our windows to add a pleasant background to our thoughts.
Yesterday was pleasant for many reasons besides the weather. Elliott and his wife, and Franklin, JuniorJr., spent many hours of the day with me and we were able to catch up on months of separation.
We listened to Mr. Winston Churchill's speech. One hopes that his solemn warning to the Germans against the use of gas in Russia will have an effect, for to add this horror to the horrors that aerial warfare has already brought, would be sad indeed.
To enter and leave our ports today is a dangerous proceeding. We citizens along the seacoasts should be deeply grateful for the safety which the air patrols bring us. The blimps and the small patrol planes sight many a submarine. One by one, as they pick them off, it is safer for the ships to go in and out &and there is less likelihood that our coast towns will wake up to find themselves being shelled.
This morning I looked at the photograph of the new air raid warden's coverall, as shown in the newspapers, and it certainly seems practical and easy to identify. I still pray that we shall not be put to the test of a severeairsevere air raid, and yet I am sure that if the day comes, we shall take it calmly.
I have two appointments here this morning and must do one or two errands. Then I speak at the forum on "The Future World Order." My belief in forums grows stronger every day. I think they should be carried on whenever even a few people can get together regularly to discuss questions which weigh on their minds.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942. BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
