
                  WASHINGTON, Monday—I left the hospital last night feeling much more cheerful, for the doctors felt that there was a chance that Franklin, junior, might not have to have an operation after all. In another two or three days I think they will be able to be a little more definite and then we can be more certain about all of our plans!
People are so very kind, however, that sometimes it seems almost worth whileworthwhile to have unfortunate things happen. Johnnie was called by a very dear friend who had heard of a new medicine which might be of use to Franklin, junior. I had a letter from a lady I do not know at all telling me of a treatment which had helped her and enclosing a doctor's article. An old friend of the boys' and mine, called me and told me that if Franklin, junior, was going to be alone in the hospital on Christmas Day, he would be delighted to come in and spend the day and eat his Christmas dinner with him, so we would not feel Franklin, junior, was alone. I could almost have wept from sheer appreciation of the kindness of one's friends.
Johnnie took me to the plane at eight-thirty last night and we were greeted by so many flashing bulbs that after I got my bags out and paid for my ticket, I walked casually back towards his car with him and managed to hide for a second behind a large stone pillar so I could kiss him goodbye without being photographed in the act. I am not quite sure, however, that I succeeded!
Though the day was cold and raw and snowy in Boston, when I took off the night was clear and we had a marvelously smooth trip. As I got out in Newark to change planes, two very soliticous gentlemen offered to walk over with me to the Eastern Air Lines and do anything the could about my bags, etc., and then as we progressed one of them said: "We are newspaper people".." At which I smiled, looking at the usual photographer's bag and camera which one of them was carrying, and remarked how much they suprised me!
I got into Washington at midnight and today the weather feels almost like spring. I managed to get in a little walk going to and from the hairdressers; had people for lunch and several appointments afterwards and in a few minutes now the first tea of the season will take place. I don't know whether I can remember how to behave, it seems such a long time since I formally received a large number of people!
