
                  
                     HYDE PARK, N. Y.HYDE PARK, Monday—After leaving Ethel yesterday morning, we stopped for nearly an hour and saw Johnny, Anne and young Haven, who are staying in Nahant, Mass., with Anne's mother, Mrs. WiltsieWiltse, who has just come back from Honolulu for the summer. Johnny has to be at his naval course in the Harvard Business School all week, but unless on duty, he can be home on Sundays.
It is fun to watch the babies in the family grow up. Young Haven has just discovered that it is quite delightful to play in the water, as long as his father holds him safely in his arms, so together they swim all over the pool. He has no fear, so I think he will grow up as accustomed to it as a small duck.
We proceeded towards home by a long, but very beautiful, route over the Mohawk Trail. We had a lovely drive, but only reached here at 9:00 p.m. I dashed over to the big house to see our son, Jimmy, and his wife, as well as my husband and mother-in-law.
Jimmy has lost ten pounds, which he could ill afford to lose. He is on sick leave for a little while, but he has much of interest to say on the various things he observed. I am looking forward very much to reading his diary.
Princess Martha of Norway, her children and household, have been staying with my mother-in-law for a few days. This morning the children all came over to the pool to swim at the same time that my brother and I were swimming. To my surprise, little Prince Harald,unremarkable (Harald correct) who had to wear water wings when he was here last year was paddling around very efficiently by himself.
All the children have grown. I saw them out riding this morning before they came to swim. They are on their way to Cape Cod and I think will enjoy the salt water and free life there. I sincerely hope it will be cooler than it has been since they came here.
I hate to see Jimmy and Rommie leave us this afternoon, but he is going to his farm in Framingham, Mass., for a complete rest.
My mother-in-law is having quite a lunch party this noon for a private opening of the library, when the neighbors will get a chance to look it over carefully for the first time.
I read with real grief this morning of Mr. Paderewski's death. I don't doubt that for him it is infinitely easier than to go on living  in the world as it is today, but one can notcannot help wishing that he might have lived to see at least the forecast of a happier future for his people.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
