
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Friday—I spent a good part of yesterday in New York City, leaving Hyde Park before my guests, who had come on Wednesday evening to entertain the soldiers at the Hyde Park canteen. I greatly enjoy having the entertainers, and Carlo Carrelli's singing gave me as much pleasure as it did the boys. They showed their enthusiasm so much that I thought they would refuse to let him stop, in spite of the fact that there was another show waiting to go on.
Miss Gypsy Markoff was also one of the entertainers. Miss Markoff, after two years of traveling to various camps, was a passenger on the ill-fated plane which crashed in Lisbon harbor. She was laid up for months, and only because of her great courage and determination is she able to resume her work now. In spite of injured arms and hands, she has learned again to play the accordian; and during her illness, she took up singing. She made a charming picture Wednesday night as she sang some very amusing songs. I hope she will give much of her time to entertaining in hospitals, because she is an object lesson for all those who might have to make a fight to regain skill or ability lost as a result of some handicap suffered in the service.
The two accompanists, Mr. Winkler and Mr. Zimmerman, were excellent. After these entertainers had finished, we saw a U. S. O.USO circuit show and returned fairly late, but everyone was up early the next morning in order to visit the President's library before leaving. Since I had to take an early train, and only our youngest grandson, aged 5, was left at home, he took charge of my guests, escorting them to the library and promising me that he would see them off at 10 o'clock to their train. I think he enjoyed his grown-up responsibility.
In her column a few days ago, Mrs. Walter Ferguson wrote of the joy of taking a little boy on his first train trip. I enjoyed her column, and I want to add that the first train trip is not the only thing which will bring you the experience she mentions of discovering, as an adult, that you are unable to answer the continuous questions which the insatiable curiosity of the youngster pours forth.
We have had three 5-year-olds around most of the summer, and I have spent my time discovering that none of my knowledge was really quite accurate or full enough to meet the demands of youth!
Yesterday in New York City, where I had come for a number of appointments, I had the good fortune to meet Quentin Reynolds, and it gave me a chance to tell him how much I enjoyed his speech at the Democratic nationalNationalconventionConvention.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
