
                  
               NEW YORK CITYNEW YORK , Tuesday—Yesterday was beautiful and we enjoyed our drive from Boston to New York City. We had a nice picnic lunch by the side of a little brook, quite the perfect place at which to eat. With a late start, however, we did not reach New York City until about four-fifteen. It was rather nice to walk into our little apartment there and to find the beds all turned down and everything clean and ready for us tonight.
We went out to dine and then to the theatre to a musical show, "Panama Hattie".." All winter my friends have been telling me how entertaining it is, and I thought that after some weeks in the country the young people with me would enjoy something light and amusing.
I was amused by the picture in the World-Telegram last night of everyone trying to buy silk stockings. I must say I like silk stockings very much, and it will be very sad when those I have are worn out. I plan to be particularly careful with my evening ones, for I think I shall mind most when they are gone. I envy my daughters in-law, who frequently go without stockings.
Probably, because I am old-fashioned, I can't quite get accustomed to that, except in the country in the daytime. However, I grew up when cotton stockings were very much in vogue and remember when fine lisle and cotton mesh were really very nice and considered most becoming. So, perhaps, we shall all find some consolation in the changes which are forced upon us.
I wonder whether you noticed something which interested me very much. A Chinese botanist, in spite of the war, is still travelling and collecting in Kansu Province, Northwestern China, for the Smithsonian InstituteInstitution. He has found a real Shangri-La in an inaccessible mountain fastness, flowers which are every color of the rainbow from June until August.
It all sounds inconceivably far away and out of the wordworld of struggle between Japan and China. Somehow it gives one a sense of the vastness of that country, which goes on its way calmly and which will probably continue developing its civilization through the ages, despite the fact that Japan may nibble at the edges of China.
It may be just another newspaper story, which I read yesterday morning, about a young German aviator turning against his own side and fighting with the Russians and then coming down and surrendering to them. His explanation was that some of the men in his division had been killed because they expressed some anti-Nazi opinions.
If it should happen to be true, it is a very encouraging piece of news, for in such ways do movements begin to crack. What is going on now in the world must be beaten from within as well as from without.
(Copyright, 1941, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
