
                  
                     Atlanta, Ga.ATLANTAmissingerpp, Tuesday— Our visit yesterday to Santa Rosa Island was preceeded by a trip with General MacGruder around the Army post. I saw old Fort BarancasBarrancas and they showed me the two fifteen fifteen-inch mortars, which date back to Spanish times. They were surrendered to General Jackson in Pensacola, Fla., when Florida was ceded to the United States. All this ground is historic and was fought over during the War Between the States. When we crossed to Santa Rosa, we saw the fort which was held by Northern soldiers all through that war.
The soldiers gave me some copies of their paper, called the "Barrancas Breeze",," and I think it is excellent. I had an opportunity to see some of the soldiers, both on the mainland and on Santa Rosa. On the mainland they have quite a group of New England men, who must find even such chilly winter days as they have here quite warm, compared to the Northern winters to which they are accustomed.
I met with the Pensacola Civilian Defense Council at 11:00 o'clock and was very much impressed by their organization on the protective side of civilian defense. Their system of communications is well set up and they have auxiliary policemen and firemen enrolled and trained. They have appointed their air raid wardens and they are now being trained.
As usual, very little has as yet been done to find work for the volunteers in the community services. In BensacolaPensacola, the local de- defense council has only established a registration bureau and not a volunteer office. I gather that a great many people have been registered and are still waiting opportunities to be trained and placed in useful work. The Red Cross people told me that they had just begun their first nurses-aid course. Their training in home nursing and first aid has been going on for some time.
I was asked by some colored women if I would come to speak to them about civilian defense in one of the colored high schools, since they were anxious to do their part also. I went there at 12:00 o'clock.
In the afternoon, some friends came to call at Lieut. and Mrs. Miller's, and later we dined with Capt. and Mrs. Read, so the day was a full one.
At 7:15 this morning, we started for Atlanta, Ga., but since Georgia is on Eastern Time, it was really eight-fifteen8:15. We stopped for lunch at Columbus, and reached Warm Springs at 3:00 o'clock. After a short time there, we drove on to Atlanta, where I am to speak tonight about civilian defense work at a meeting in the Civic Auditorium.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
