
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Thursday—I was particularly interested in a report in yesterday's paper, of the petition filed by a Quebec Member of Parliament to annex a small strip of United States land. The State Department does not comment on the incident, but the reasons given seem fairly reasonable to anyone who has ever been in that part of the state. I suppose ceding five miles of United States territory will be a very difficult procedure.
I don't doubt that there will be some members of this small community who will prefer to remain United States citizens, even without schools and in spite of duties. So I foresee long diplomatic arguments before any conclusion can be reached. At least no one is talking about going to war about it, which shows an improvement since 1830, when the boundaries between Maine and Canada nearly brought us to grief.
I have received a letter which interests me extremely. An agency has been opened in New York City exclusively for musical representation. There has been, they tell me, some difficulty in the placing of musical manuscripts, and this seems to promise real help for young composers as well as the better known composers and writers of songs.
I am particularly interested, because it has been our good fortune to receive many songs and musical compositions during the past few years, frequently with the plea that if we like them to pass them along for publication. That, of course, is not possible, but I have often felt I would be grateful to know of some agent to whom I could recommend these people, and that is why I am so pleased at this discovery.
This is a beautiful June day. My first morning activity was a visit to the hospital. I sat in Mrs. Scheider's room for quite a while without her knowing I was there, for she was sleeping. Something roused her and she looked at me and demanded sternly why I had not  awakened her. She wants to know already if I think she will be able to do a part of the mail by next week, but we are telling her firmly that the tables are reversed and we are doing her mail instead of having her do ours.

