
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—Mrs. Franklin K. Lane told me yesterday of a most interesting thing which a group of women is doing in New Mexico. They have taken the proper training and are now being used in all clinics and hospitals throughout the State. Because of the increased load which is being carried by health officials everywhere and the decrease in the number of trained nurses and doctors available, this work could not be done without this group of volunteers.
Ever since I mentioned slacks in my press conference the other day, I have been receiving offers from various firms to send me slacks which are becoming to the middle age, dumpy figure which some of us past middle life have to endure. I am much impressed by everybody's kindness, but I really have never found the need for these garments; though one picture of a kind of double, divided skirt does seem to me rather practical and cool. It is short and when you are walking would look very much like a simple skirt with two pleats front and back.
There seems to be a great deal of discussion on the subject of taxes, which is reflected in my mail. Some people seem to labor under the impression that the President in talking about a new maximum personal income of $25,000 a year, was not considering the deductions allowed in the past that amounted to fifteen per centpercent of the gross income for charitable and educational gifts.
I think the wording of the President's statement rather clearly indicated that he spoke of net income after deductions of all taxes and this would include gifts. Of course, the final decision regarding this must rest with the Congress which is now writing the bill. They will have to decide whether undertakings which are now carried on as private charities or educational or civic institutions, should become a charge on the community as a whole, or remain dependent on voluntary support from private individuals.
We will undoubtedly go through much discussion in the next few years on subjects such as this, just as there is much discussion on whether people should be allowed to deduct excessive doctor's bills and the cost of higher education for young people. To my mind, both charges seem a reasonable deduction and of more importance to those of moderate incomes than to those touching the $25,000 income group.
What we must realize is that suggestions may be made by individuals and by the Administration, but the final decision rests with the Congress of the United States representing the people of the nation.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
