
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—I stopped in yesterday at the U.S. Information Center to see an exhibition which is part of the WAC recruiting program. They have models and photographs of all the different activities in which the WACs take part, and I am sure there would be something there to interest every girl. I have received a number of letters lately urging that the age limit for entering the WAC be lowered. This age limit, of course, is fixed by Congress, but possibly Congress should make some investigation to see whether this change would be advisable, since so many people seem interested in it.
Yesterday afternoon I went out to Walter Reed Hospital to attend the last meeting of the discussion group which was organized by Mrs. Bradley Dewey and a group of women for the patients. They have been meeting in the Red Cross recreation room, but this is now being done over and, though we had a delightful meeting yesterday out on the grounds, the women feel that this would be a rather uncertain regular meeting place, since even a shower would make an outdoor gathering impossible. It was beautiful yesterday afternoon. The boys all sat around in their wheel chairswheelchairs, or stretched out on the grass. It probably did them a great deal of good from a health standpoint, and I hoped they were getting some of the information they wanted.
Three of the officers—fliers, who are patients out there, made a most accurate and beautiful model of a British HarkerHawker Hurricane airplane, and presented it to me some time ago. I am sending it up to the library at Hyde Park, but since during the war only a small number of people would see it there, I am going to lend it to the school near Hyde Park. I am sure every young boy will be interested in seeing this type of plane, which has been so carefully reproduced.
I have just received a letter from Miss Alma Kitchell who is the director of two women's programs on the Blue Network. These are known as the "Woman's Exchange" and "Meet Your Neighbor." Miss Kitchell tells me that she has been doing a great deal of work on clothing conservation, and that Mrs. Mary Brooks Picken, who is one of the best known fashion advisers and is called by some, "America's Foremost Home Sewing Authority," has been helping her as a contribution to the war effort without any compensation or recognition. Mrs. Picken has published 88 books and countless newspaper and magazine articles, and I am sure that she is helping many women with her advice. I mention both of these women here because, in addition to their regular jobs, they are making contributions to the war effort which few people know anything about. Whenever we hear of something of this kind, I hope we will all give it recognition. To do so will encourage hundreds of other women to do the same thing and will add to the total war effort.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
