
                  WASHINGTON, Monday
                     —Yesterday afternoon I took a very fascinating young namesake of mine, Eleanor Cynthia Lund, who is about nineteen months old, out to visit the hardiest little six weeks old twins I have seen in a long time. Bess Furman, a one time Associated Press reporter, has acquired a new job and these two small twins of hers born in her brother's home in Nebraska, were brought by motor from there, to their home here in Washington. They held a levee yesterday afternoon. Mrs. Garner and I, and a number of other friends, including several children, made their acquaintance and decided they were quite the most remarkable infants we had ever seen. They stood their trip wonderfully and showed no signs of fatigue or irritation.
For the first time in weeks, the family, consisting of my husband and myself, James and BetsyBetsey, and Elliott and Ruth, had Sunday evening supper by ourselves and I had to scramble so few eggs, that I hardly felt it was worth doing.
At nine-fifteen this morning my brother, my daughter-in-law, Ruth, and I went to the Washington airport. I was to christen a new airship which is inaugurating the hourly service between Washington and New York. The wind blew and the position in which I stood was a trifle awkward. If I came out on the platform my skirts tended to blow above my head. If I stood inside the airship door, it was extremely difficult to break the bottle. In the interest of modesty, I finally did this, and Captain Eddie Rickenbacker helped me finally to break the bottle which I never could have done alone. At least the airship does not slide away from you as a boat does!
Once back in the White House, there was a press conference and then a very charming woman, Mary Ames Cushman, came in to present me with her book of diaries written when she was a child in Europe. I have only read a little of it, but its charm is very evident and if you have an opportunity, I think you will find "She Wrote It All Down",Down," a very pleasant afternoon's entertainment.
There were several other appointments, and before they were over, I was presented with another book which I can hardly wait to read. It is called: "College Men.Men: Their Making and Unmaking." An interesting title indeed, and one that will tempt many of us to look inside and get the author's point of view. I sometimes question whether any college in which you do not have to work your way through, really can give the maximum of value to its students during the four years they spend there.
A few people came to lunch and several groups are to be received this afternoon, the largest group will be the graduating classes of the various Washington private schools who come annually for a spring reception.
