
                  
                     Eastport, Me.EASTPORT, Maine, Thursday—Yesterday might have been an autumn day, cold and clear, with the wind blowing from the west. We thought we might go across to Grand Manan, but there were whitecaps on the bay, so we decided that it would be too cold and rough for pleasure outside the bay. We put it off and, alas, today is gray and cloudy and again we must defer it.
I had a call yesterday afternoon from Officer  Sennett, of the Canadian Mounted Police. He offered his services in case any of our young people are lost in the woods, or anything else occurs where he can be helpful. Since he is stationed on the island for the summer, I certainly hope that no one will be lost in the woods. However, such things have happened, and it is good to know there is some onesomeone who can be called upon in case of emergencies. Officer Sennett boards with the gentleman who looks after our pump engine, Mr. Murray Johnson, so he will not be hard to find.
We lunched with my cousin, Mrs. Fred  Adams, and she took us for a walk through some of her paths in the woods. I am afraid that, to those who are familiar with them, it seems a  bewildering walk and to find it again without a guide may be difficult.
There was a most beautiful sunset last night which left a deep red glow in one spot and one felt one might be looking at flames from an active  volcano. It gradually faded to pink and the water took on the soft  mauve shade that comes just before dark. We turned away from the window and sat around the fire and read aloud.
At 10:00 p.m. we getgot news over the radio from the United States, and so listened to Mr. Raymond Gram Swing. I must say nobody seems very positive in analyzing and forecasting the future. It is too much to ask, I imagine, for I doubt if there ever was a world situation quite like the present one.
There is an old saying that politics makes strange bedfellows. War seems to do much the same thing. Gradually, however, the pieces of the puzzle seem to be slipping into place. Smaller nations have no choice, they must either toe the mark in one way or another, or be  swallowed up. The great nations will soon all have declared their position in the immediate situation.
What is to come later is still a mystery, but I am not sure that the shaping of the future is not going to require greater skill and courage even than fighting the war to a finish.
We are off to Eastport now to get a few of the things which were forgotten on our shopping trip the other day. Then I think an open fire and a book will look very inviting.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
