
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—The day at Cornell University yesterday was much the same as it always is. We spent the morning discussing the various new developments in the College of Home Economics. Miss Rose made a statement which was interesting and very true. She says that her girls have a sense of security brought about by the fact that they learn how to handle their own lives and know they have acquired real knowledge in some special field of home economics work, which will enable them to earn a living.
The one thing that stands out in these girls is that they look strong and healthy, as though they have learned something in the course of their study about the basic rules of health and have applied it to their own lives. It seems to me that much beauty is dependent on health. If a girl has to surmount some physical handicap or ill health, it requires even greater effort and control of the mind and spirit.
Some of the girls inquired of me how I felt they could supplement their course in home economics to make it prepare them better to appreciate a greater variety of subjects. This shows a realization that we all need many windows in order to obtain satisfactions from as many points as possible. Difficult as it is for a girl to concentrate on one course and still take others on the side, I think that whatever speciality she works on, she should try to broaden her viewpoint so as to obtain more and more enjoyment out of the world in which she lives.
They had quite a remarkable book fair here this year and I was sorry I did not see it. They told me of one book which traced the development of the language in Dutchess County, New York, and gave many of the old Dutch words. These words have always intrigued menme and I have always wanted to know their meanings, so I must find this book and devote some leisure time to it in the summer.
Before going to the Master Farmers' Dinner, we stopped at the university radio station, and Miss Rose and I were interviewed by some of the students taking the radio course. They were well prepared and the whole time was filled in a perfectly natural and informal manner, which I am sure carried interest for their listeners, both on and off the campus.
The Master Farmers' Dinner was a little less crowded than usual because of the condition of the roads, but it was a surprise to me to find how many guests were there. There was a table filled by master farmers and one filled by young people, who were also to receive awards. Unfortunately, in order to make our train from Elmira, Mrs. Morgenthau, Dr. Louise Stanley and I had to leave at 9:00 o'clock. We did have the pleasure of seeing Governor Lehman come in and speaking to him for a minute, and we also had a word with his secretary, Mr. Walter Brown. We missed hearing the glee club sing, which Mrs. Morgenthau and I always particularly enjoyed. Above all, we missed hearing the citations read and this is always the high spot of the evening for me, so we left with real regret. However, it was lucky that we took no later train, for the one we were on was due at 7:50 o'clocka.m. in Washington unremarkablemorning, and it arrived at ten-thirty.
I am spending the day trying to catch up on lost time.
(COPYRIGH, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
