
                  
                     Hyde Park, N. Y.HYDE PARK, Monday—We went by train yesterday and so had only a short drive through the Bronx to the Fair. I made rather futile attempts to stay as tidy as possible in the open car, and still be polite to the Mayor and Mr. Edward J. Flynn, who were riding with us. At the same time, I tried to wave occasionally at such kindly people along the way as were out to wave to the President.
Once at the Federal Building, Mr. Grover Whalen greeted us and immediately discovered the fact that my dress had been designed especially for the Fair. My young niece, Eleanor Roosevelt, made the design, which was bought by a large department store that makes many of my clothes. The color was a perfect match for the interior decorations in the dining room of the Federal Building, so I was even more appropriately attired than I had originally imagined. The Federal Building is lovely.
We only had a hurried glimpse of the Federal exhibit after lunch, but it was sufficient to make me want to go back to spend a longer time. It is very different from the one in San Francisco, but equally interesting. I think it will be extremely valuable to any citizen who is interested in his government.
The exercises in the big court with the crowds in front were impressive, but a little longer than we expected, so our departure was hurried and our train was a little late in reaching Hyde Park.
On arrival, we drove as fast as we could to the Poughkeepsie dock to greet the young Danish Crown Prince and Princess, who had come up the Hudson River on the "Potomac." Their Royal HughnesseHighnesses: have completed their trip across the country and I think they have enjoyed it. They are interested in the people they have met and say they have been greeted everywhere with kindness. The Yosemite, with its old trees, seems to have made a great impression on them, as it always does on me. I was amused to have the Crown Prince tell me that the redwood trees made him feel about an inch high and a very small cog in the universe. This is exactly the way they make me feel.
After dinner last evening, we had a short musical program for their entertainment. Our singer was Miss Charlotte, a mezzo-soprano accompanied by Mr. Franz Mittler. Miss Charlotte has come to this country to make it her home, having had her musical training in Vienna and Salzburg. She is a concert singer and her voice has great sweetness, so that we all enjoyed her singing very much. During the intermission, a quartette of boys from Salem College, Salem, West Virginia, gave us some purely American music which was much appreciated also.
Today is bright and clear and we are going up to the top of the hill for a picnic.
(Copyright, 1939, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
