
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday—Yesterday afternoon a British woman, Miss Maude Boston, came to see me. She was an exchange student at the Broadway School, Sedalia, Miss., in 1939, returned to Great Britain just in time for the first blitz, and set to work at once to help evacuate children out of London to the country. She knows England very well under war conditions, and returned here at the invitation of the Missouri State Teachers Federation last year to make a speaking tour. Unlike many visitors, she decided to be a little informal about her arrangements and to get to know as much as she possibly could about the people in this country in their own homes. For nearly a year she has travelled all over the United States, making friends and speaking to every type of audience.
I enjoyed talking to Miss Boston, and I am glad she will follow much the same program on her return to Great Britain, and tell the people over there what she knows of the real life of the people of this country.
At 6:30 P.M.p.m. Lieutenant John P. Dwyer of Walter Reed Hospital brought the three boys who won the prizes for selling war bonds— Corporal Fred Dixon, Private Charles Goodman, and Private Jack Indictor, to see the White House. Corporal Dixon is getting along wonderfully well with his artificial legs and two canes. After they had done their sight-seeingsightseeing, they joined the family at dinner, and then I took them to the National Symphony Orchestra Concertconcert. It proved to be a very delightful evening which we all enjoyed.
Today I have a few people lunching with me, and then Colonel Oveta Hobby is bringing six Polish WACSWACs to tea. We will be photographed first on the front portico, and then they will have tea and see the White House.
Every Easter we are asked to buy Easter seals, and the proceeds of these sales in the state of Wisconsin are used by the Wisconsin Association for the Disabled. A boy who is a cripple wrote to tell me the story of the reclamation camp which the association runs near Wisconsin Dells, and sent me copies of a little paper called "Smiling Through".Through." This camp is known as Camp Wawbeek for Crippled Children.
The estate, including several buildings, was the gift of Mrs. Charles Upham Davis and CarolinaCaroline Upham Hughes to the association which has invested more money in proper equipment. Children come from all over the state, suffering from many crippling diseases, but whether they are in wheel chairswheelchairs or are only partially afflicted, the program is adapted to give them both pleasure and education.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
