
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Thursday—One of the groups of people which the present situation in Europe has sent to seek shelter on our shores includes many outstanding artists from different countries. A group of people headed by Mrs. Anna Case MackeyMackay, is sponsoring a concert for the benefit of these refugees who are in need of aid. This concert will take place in Carnegie Hall on Monday evening, December 18th. While many people attending it will feel that they are contributing to a worthy charity, at the same time, if music gives them pleasure, they will have a very pleasant evening.
Yesterday I received a very interesting letter from a Mr. Segal of South Norwalk, Connecticut, who tells me that for some time past he has been acting as a one man employment agency. When he could not employ people in his own business, he has had them fill out questionairesquestionnaires and, with his personal letter, has sent that questionairequestionnaire to a number of people. Sometimes he has written to friends, sometimes to acquaintances who he felt might have an opening. In this way he has succeeded in placing a great many individuals. This is an example of what one man can do. A community can do it also and the same procedure could be followed by many people and even many agencies.
Job getting is largely a matter of the real interest which individuals take in each other. I have one friend who says that she knows if she had $50,000 capital, she could start any number of people who come to her for help in small businesses where they would soon be self-supporting and able to repay the money which she loaned. Of course, she realizes that for a time some supervision would have to be given most cases. But she feels that almost all the people with whom she has come in contact could earn their way if someone would take the trouble to adjust them properly and start them off.
Her particular interest is in women because, being a business woman and an employer, she has naturally come in contact with women seeking jobs. I know that she has started a few people on the upward path and I have always been hopeful that some daysomeday she might have the chance to really try it out on a bigger scale.
Yesterday afternoon I went to the tea given at the Women's University Club for Dr.Mrs. Mary Beard. There was an interesting exhibition of material to be given to the World Center for Women's Archives Inc. Miss Mabel Boardman and Mrs. Frances Parkinson Keyes, besides the Library of Congress and National Archives Council, had contributed exhibitions of suitable material. I only wish I could have taken more time to look over the manuscripts more carefully. I had just read a little about the life of De Soto's wife, and was amused to find that she was included as being the first woman governor in this hemisphere!
(COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
