
                  ITHACA, N.Y.
                     —This morning, in spite of Mrs. Morgenthau's feeble protest, we left at 7:30 and joined the Conference Board of Women's Educational Organizations in New York State at Miss Flora Rose's for breakfast at 8:30. It is interesting to read the list of organizations represented here: The New York State Congress of Parent Teachers, the Women's Christian Temperance Union, the New York State Conference of the National Council of Jewish Women, New York State Grange, New York State Home Economics Association, New York State League of Women Voters, New York State Federation of Home Bureaus, and New York State Federation of Home Demonstration Agents. The only member organization without a representative here on this occasion is the New York State Federation of Women's Clubs.
We have had a most interesting morning, first of all hearing from the various state leaders of the Extension Service of the College of Home Economics at Cornell so that the group might know in what way this service could be useful to their organizations. Then we attended a program planning meeting for Orleans County. All the time they were discussing their plans for the coming year, I kept hoping that every county in the state would some daysomeday have a similar organization.
Four counties are inaugurating this year a service for young people who are not reached by the 4-H Club work but who are not yet old enough to be in the regular adult organizations. That between-age from 18 to 24 or 25 which needs guidance and assistance just now more perhaps than any other group. I am keenly interested to watch the results in these counties as I feel the work may well be extended not only in this state but in many other states and I am interested to find that they are working closely with the National Youth Administration.
In Miss Rose's discussion of the educational and administrative work of the College of Home Economics, I was interested to discover that she is really giving an education in democracy. This is evidently necessary in an institution of learning just as it is for the government of a great country.
