
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Wednesday—We had an uneventful trip to New York City yesterday afternoon. On arrival, we went to dine at a French restaurant where crepe suzettes are done to perfection. It seems to be the favorite dessert of the friends I had with me. Then we went to see "Mamba's Daughters",," largely because Katharine Cornell, whose husband, Guthrie McClintic, staged this play, told me Ethel Waters really achieved a remarkable dramatic success in the character of "Hagar."
For me it was an unforgetable evening, so real that I could hardly believe that I was not actually on the plantation, or on the waterfront in Charleston, South Carolina. Poor defenseless people, betrayed often by their virtues! It is to me an extraordinary, artistic success.
I went first to see Mrs. Thomas Lynch this morning before her husband's funeral and I marvel at her self-control. She felt that after seven years of happiness, her world had fallen to pieces about her, for she and her husband and their little girl had seemed to live on a little island of intimacy. When you have been so happy, it is hard to be resigned.
I had not expected to see my mother-in-law in the church, but I was hardly seated when she came up the aisle, and so I went home with her afterward and sat for a while and talked with the three sisters—Mrs. Forbes, my mother-in-law and Mrs. Price Collier. Mrs. Collier is, of course, much younger, but as I looked at them all I thought what a wonderful trio they are—so full of vitality. Even Mrs. Forbes is still beautiful, with features and spirit which age apparently cannot touch.
While there, I looked down and discovered I had a run, clear up my stocking and decided I would have to go out at once to buy another pair. But my mother-in-law came to my rescue and insisted she could provide me with an entirely new pair. I put them on and werewore them out of the house, warning her that they probably would never be returned!
An hour with the dentist and then to lunch with my aunt, Mrs. Stanley Mortimer. By 3:00 O'clock I was back at my apartment to attend to a number of things.
(Copyright, 1939, by UNited Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
