
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—There is a little community service bulletin, number 128, which tells the story of a Sergeant Loque of the United States Army. A Puerto Rican and a resident of New York City, he fell on hard times, but finally came through successfully through his decision to serve his country.
I think it would give you a lift to read this story and to add to it a magazine article about "Phyllis." I have spoken about "Phyllis",," one of our bombers,,, which I saw in Great Britain. I knew that her crew had told the story of her exploits, so when I came across this story the other day, I was much interested in reading it. It certainly is a stirring tale and I don't wonder that the men love the plane.
I also enjoyed reading another article, "The Corvette On Convoy Duty." It seemed more real to me since. I examined one in Londonderry. These little ships do dangerous work and protect many a merchantman from the enemy lurking under the water.
On Monday afternoon, I received for the White House, some very lovely china plates. The makers have used American artists to decorate themandthem and the set has on it the picture chosen as the winner of one of the Treasury Department's advertisements. It shows Mount Vernon with a big American Flag flag draped over one part of the background and is very colorful.
Yesterday I lunched with the Women's National Press Club and had tea with the American Women's Newspaper Club. Both asked me to talk about my trip to Great Britain. Since many of the people present belonged to my press conference and had several opportunities to question me on everything in which they were interested, I felt I was "carrying coal to Newcastle."
Nevertheless, one of the reasons why I went to Great Britain was the hope of bringing back to this country a better picture of what has happened there. I have no idea of copying what they do, but I hope we shall use anything from their experience which may be useful in our own development.
We have been at war less than a year and it is perfectly obvious that we cannot expect to have had all the British people have already had. Some of their experiences may never come our way, but no one was ever hurt by more knowledge of what other people have gone through.
E.R. (COPYRIGHT, 1942, by UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
