It is hard to believe here, where it is on the whole rather mild today, that upstate New York is enveloped in snow, but I suppose as the paper predicts, cold weather for the east and south, that by tomorrow we will also be find it winter weather here!
Ever since I read the account of how exhausted the birds are when they reach their destination after their migration from the north, I have been wondering if there is any way in which their habits might be changed. Perhaps they would not mind the cold if we all saw to it that they had enough to eat, so I think that besides feeding our squirrels this winter, we will get some advice as to the best things to put out to attract and keep with us as many birds as possible.
I was much interested today to read a dispatch from London by the Associated Press stating that the 1937 edition of Jane's famous "All the World's Aircraft",Aircraft," ranked the United States airforce the largest and "possibly the most efficiently equipped in the world." This is not as a fighting force, however, other nations have stronger military forces, but it speaks well for our equipment and for the aviators themselves. A plane is of no use without the man or woman who flies it!
I have a funny message today, transmitted to me by a gentleman who is interested in housing. It appears that the day I spent in Cleveland, Ohio, I walked dso fast and saw so much that I left every bodyeverybody exhausted, particularly the poor newspaper photographers who had to carry their heavy machines around with them and practically had to run from place to place.
It is a mistake to learn young to move about quickly, you never get over it!
Mr. De Lancey Kountze came down from New York to lunch with me and to ask me if I would serve on a poster contest committee in which young artists are to be allowed to compete. I know I have no business to take on anything more even next May, but there is something rather exciting about seeing what young artists can do with an idea and so I think I shall serve.
Another gentleman also came to see me about a foundation which he would like to start in an effort to bring before our young people the fact that the country now recognizes success as service to the community as a whole. He has the germ I think of a real idea but whether his plan is a practical one remains to be seen, and I think a number of people will have to go over it before anything definite can be decided.
I saw today the drawings for the idea which is to be used in the Federal Court of the World's Fair in New York City. The architects I think have conceived something really very beautiful and I am looking forward to seeing it actually carried out.
