
                  
                     New YorkNEW YORK, Thursday—Yesterday I attended the French-American Club, Inc., lunch and was very much pleased to be invited to become a member. Besides our traditional sense of gratitude to the French people for their support at the time of our Revolution, I have always been grateful for the leadership in thought given by Voltaire which prepared the thinking of the men of that period. I shall never cease to be grateful personally for the years spent with Mademoiselle Marie Souvestre who left an indelible mark on many of her pupils.
Both Mrs. Davey and Monsieur Jacques Maratain Maritain spoke eloquently. There is no one who is more delightful to talk to, nor a better presiding officer than Mr. Louis Bromfield.
In the afternoon, I saw Mr. Walter Russell's very excellent head of my husband and spent some time talking to various friends at my apartment. In the evening I attended the Hunter College Commencement exercises.
It is amazing to see so many young women graduating, almost a thousand girls took their degrees. It was an inspiring evening and I shall watch with interest the girls whom I have had the pleasure of meeting in this class as they grow under their new responsibilities.
Dr. George Shuster, the President of Hunter College, announced that the two houses in which my mother-in-law and my husband and I lived in 65th Street, had been bought by Hunter College to be used as an inter-faith house where the girls would come together in different religious groups and also for social purposes.
I should like to mention even belatedly, how glad I am to hear that the Drexel Institute of Technology had given an honorary degree on June 13th, to Miss Grace E. Frysinger. Miss Frysinger was made a Doctor of Science and the citation reads:
"Home economist of international distinction and expert in the problems of rural life. As an educator and writer she has rendered invaluable service in the improvement of rural life in all parts of the world, especially in America where, by virtue of her high position as senior home economist in the Department of Agriculture, she has made outstanding contributions to the improvement of the standards of living in the rural communities of our country."
I have known Miss Frysinger ever since I have been interested in rural organizations. I am glad to pay a tribute here to her and to Dr. Louise Stanley, who heads the Bureau of Home Economics in the Department of Agriculture, as well as to the many other scientific people working there. They do an outstanding useful piece of work for the government and for the people of the country.
(Copyright, 1942, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
