
                  WASHINGTON, Friday
                     —It was raining when we stepped from the midnight train in Washington this morning. The trees are in full bloom and some of the tulips are still a riot of color in front of the White House, but many of them have already bloomed.
I enjoyed seeing last night, "Yes, My Darling Daughter",Daughter," which is ligelight and amusing and entertaining from a good many points of view with some very excellent acting. If Governor Lehman receives all the petitions which I have seen signed in the three evenings I have been to the play, he should know something of what the theatre-going public thinks on the subject of censorship!
My orgy of entertainment is over and I shall probably not go to another theatre for many weeks, but I am glad I had this fling. Somehow the theatre gives me more the feeling that I am off on a vacation than any other form of entertainment.
My daughter-in-law, BetsyBetsey, and iI went down to the train to meet my husband and his party and we were the first to get on the car and see how well my husband and Elliott looked. James and Ruth and Chandler were also there, and we all came back to the White House together. It is such a joy to have Elliott, Ruth and Chandler for a few days. I asked Chandler how her rocking horse was getting on and she at once answered that she fed him every night and put his blanket on before he went to bed! Before she left home, she arranged that some one else take over this responsibility during her absence!
There seemed to be a number of little things to do this morning, and then I went to lunch with the women of the Seventy-Fifth Congress. This is the last Congressional Club luncheon this season. As a group these women did a very charming thing. Instead of having a very expensive lunch, they had a simple luncheon and each contributed to buying a wheel chair for a little crippled boy who needs it to get himself around his home and school. This they did in my honor and Mrs. John Murdock, their President, wrote a song for which her boy in Arizona wrote the music. The club as a whole sang it to me at the end of lunch. I came out feeling very grateful for their friendship and very happy that they were going to give so much happiness not only to the little boy but to his mother as well.
I have just been reading a book called "THisThis New America" which brings out the living side of the C.C.C.CCCCampscamps in a delightful way. After all, while the work which is done in the different parts of the country is very important, the real interest in these camps, is the boys themselves. Their contribution in this book is very significant, giving one a picture of the different types of boys and their potentialities which I think, can not fail to awaken response in the heart of every reader.
