
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—I had a very good flight up yesterday from Atlanta, Georgia, but we had a headwind which made us a few minutes late in landing. As on practically all my flights recently, the ship was filled. I think a great many more people must be travelling by air. This time there were four or five women, but males still predominate in air travel.
I left all at Warm Springs in grand spirits. The President was just starting off with two of the forestry people to look over the woods. No more congenial occupation than that can ever be found for him.
Miss Thompson awaited me and, in spite of the usual quantity of mail, I was so glad to see her I would have done twice as much mail with joy. After she went home, I worked until I was through with what she left for me to do.
Bright and early this morning I was down in the dentist's chair, for I broke off a corner of a tooth while I was away and had to have it replaced.
At 10:30 I went out to ride. Our old bridle path along the river is temporarily out of commission on account of the work on the new airport, so the Agricultural Department's experimental farm grounds, which I think have now been turned over to the Army, provide some good paths. We tried riding around the edge of Arlington Cemetery, which also proved a good place to ride, and we came back past Fort MeyerMyer stables.
I have a note today from Dr. Latham Hatcher, who is interest-interested in the Alliance for Guidance forof Rural Youth, and I am going to have the pleasure on December fifth, of talking with some of the youngsters on the radio. The Alliance has been working for rural youth for 25 years and is celebrating its birthday by trying to raise a little more money than usual this year. In New York City, on the first of December, they will open their campaign and they have taken over the opera Tannhauser. I wish I could be there, for it is one of my favorite operas. In any case, I shall take some tickets and send them to some one else to enjoy it.
Dr. Hatcher tells me that the Alliance has provided individual guidance for approximately 21,000 rural youth. They have published many books and bulletins and they are putting on a national demonstration of a county youth guidance program in BreathitBreathitt County, Kentucky. To anyone who knows, as I do, the difficulties which face many of our rural youth in different parts of the country, the work of this association seems very important. These young people need help in receiving an education, deciding what they want to do in life, obtaining medical care, adjusting themselves to the changes in our civilization— whether or not they are going to live their adult lives in rural or urban places. Whether we live in the city or the country, we can ill afford not to help them, for they will make the nation of the future.
(COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
