
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Friday—Beginning September 24, all the religious communities of America, regardless of faith or denomination, will cooperate with other local service organizations in a drive for the emergency collection of clothing for Europe.
As each new country is liberated, the military occupation must be supplemented by the governments of the liberated lands and by the United Nations Rehabilitation and ReliefRelief and Rehabilitation Administration set up by the 44 United Nations. With winter coming on, there will be a great need for warm clothing in all these countries; and so this collection has been instituted in the hope of sending 15,000,000 pounds of clothing to be distributed wherever the need is greatest.
Dr. Leslie B. Moss, executive secretary of the Church Committee on Overseas Relief and Reconstruction, Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, reported 120,593 churches, representing 21 Protestant denominations, are co-operatingcooperating in this collection. Archbishop Mooney, chairman of the board of trustees, War Relief Services of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, reported that 16,000 Catholic charities have responded to the appeal. And Mrs. Joseph M. Welt, president of the National Council of Jewish Women, reported 3,728 temples and synagogues have pledged full co-operationcooperation.
The articles urgently needed for both winter and summer wear are infantsinfants' clothing, especially knit goods; men's and boy's clothing, including work clothes and overalls; women's and girl's clothes; and blankets, sheets, pillow cases and quilts. This list would seem to give all of us a chance to donate something.
A violent thunderstorm last evening made it impossible to hear anything over the radio. This is always disappointing when speeches are being made during a campaign. I read both Governor Dewey's and Vice President Wallace's speeches today, and there is one thought in the latter's speech which I think we should emphasize.
"There shall never be a return to the normalcy of yesteryear—to normalcy for the few and subnormalcy for the many," the Vice President said. "We welcome—yes, we shall fight for something we have never had—the normalcy of the good life for everybody."
If we learned nothing else after the last war, we must have learned one thing—there is never any return to conditions of the past. We must be prepared to meet new conditions in new ways.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
