
                  WashingtonWASHINGTON, Wednesday.—A little after five yesterday, the President, young Bill and I were down by the front door of the White House waiting for our guests from Canada to arrive.  Young Bill decided he could see the cavalry better if he went out, so he stood on the steps.  When the first sound of the horses coming up at a faster trot between the Treasury and the White House was heard, the President could be restrained no longer and he announced firmly: "We will go out and watch the cavalry."
Bill was a little mystified by it all, but very good.  He stood back of us and watched the party go in, interested chiefly in the uniforms.  When we finally found ourselves, after a formal reception in the Blue Room, seated in the Red Room, having tea, Bill came to me and I told him to go and tell his grandfather something.
He looked around the room and saw that everyone had on frock coats or uniforms.  ApparntlyApparently Bill did not associate his grandfather with that kind of costume, because he gazed at me quite firmly and said: "Grandpa isn't here."  It was some little time before I could persuade him that one of the frock coated gentlemen was his own grandfather.
Mr. and Mrs. Guthrie McClintic (KatherineKatharine Cornell) arrived at about six o'clock.  Many of their friends came to dinner with us before the cermeonyceremony which took place in the East Room at nine o'clock.  Miss Cornell was presented with the National Achievement Award medal which is given each year to a woman who has distinguished herself in some field of service.  This year it was awarded in the field of dramatic art and those of us who served on the committee of award had little difficulty in deducing Miss Cornell should be the recipient.
It seemed to me very fitting that after a few preliminary remarks by Dr. Mary Love Collins, Mrs. Mary Gardin FrazierLaura Gardin Fraser, the member of the Committee representing the arts, should introduce as speakers, first Mrs. August Belmont, and then Mr. Alexander Woollcott. Both of them spoke delightfully and though I can appreciate that Miss Cornell probably suffered a little under the kind words which came to her in public, still I hope that she had the sense of satisfaction which comes from the knowledge that you have well earned whatever honors are yours. For all of us who attended the ceremony it will long remain a memorable occasion.
A ride this morning, my annual lunch with the ladies of the 73rd Congress, and now my husband and I are leaving by motor to meet the Governor General and The Lady Tweedsmuir at Mt. Vernon where they have gone by boat.
