
                  HYDE PARK
                     —We spent a part of yesterday morning in New York City having a quiet breakfast at the apartment, and then I sallied forth and in a brief two hours, I think I ordered all my winter clothes! I hope so, for the next few months look so busy on my calendar that I know I should find myself in the midst of winter like "Flora McFlimsey of Washington Square with nothing to wear", figuratively speaking, of course!
The real trouble is that I must always havinghave something which seems to me utterly unnecessary but I suppose it is one of the demands of White House life.
Then we took the train to Poughkeepsie, and my youngest son met me. Because we lunched on the train, it never occurred to me that our arrival would interfere with his lunch, and I was horrified to learn that he had had nothing to eat. As usual there were many guests, and so I said a hurried greeting to my husband and mother-in-law and all the guests, not to delay them any longer than possible, and went over to the Cottage to get some of the mail cleared up which had accumulated here.
By five o'clock I was back with my mother-in-law and my husband for we had about ten people come in between five and six o'clock just to "say a few words" to the President. Mr. and Mrs. Basil O'Connor spent the night and some other friends who had come up for dinner did not know just where they wanted to stay. I took them over to my weaving rooms, for there I have two extra guest rooms. 
                     Nelly Johansen is always ready to look after any one who wishes to occupy them, so they decided they preferred these accommodations to any hotel. After dinner they went over and I found them very happily ensconced this morning when I stopped in to look at them to make sure they were comfortable.

                  My mother-in-law has four great-grandchildren staying at the house, two grandsons, and my daughter and her husband over the week endweekend, so even a big house is fairly full!
This morning my husband and his mother went to church but I decided a little fresh air was probably wise for me, and particularly as the number of people coming for lunch seemed to change every few minutes. I think we are finally sixteen though I came over to the cottage a short time ago, and I expect I may find when I return that several more have been added. When my husband is home, guests spring out of the ground!
