
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Friday—Yesterday, at lunch in the White House, I was interested to meet the committee which had come to choose a new chairman of the Democratic National Committee. I am very happy over the choice which has been made. I have never had anything but respect for Mr. Flynn's integrity and his ability and I am sure that Mr. Farley will give him his cooperation and assist in every possible way.
Mr. Farley is keeping the chairmanship of the New York State Democratic Committee, because he realizes that the New York State organization is so important, that what happens to it is vital to the party. I know the women of the party will find in Mr. Flynn a sympathetic and able advisor, and that he will appreciate the interest of young people in this campaign.
Like many other people, I feel that this is not an ordinary campaign. The party would not have nominated a man for a third term unless they felt that the times were extraordinary and that particular man was needed.
Therefore, those in the party who work for him, must do so not purely because they are interested in the triumph of the Democratic Party's background and political theories, but because they believe we face a serious moment in history isin which our party has a leader whom we trust to meet, better than any one else, the peculiar problems which face the nation. If we feel this way, then we must put all we have at the service of those running the campaign.
The dinner last night, held during Dr. Harriet Elliott's conference for the heads of the organizations interested in consumer's problems, was very pleasant. I enjoyed talking to her and Dr. Frank Graham.
After a two hour talk at the White House late in the evening with the President, I took the night train back to New York City. I am glad to say that he hopes to follow soon.
On the way home this morning, I read the article in the Saturday Evening Post by Joseph F. Dinneen. He sums up in the last sentence why he is resigning from the American Newspaper Guild. Much that he says is perfectly true. I, myself, had talked to the late Heywood Broun about many of the points which he brings up. I am a member of the New York Guild. I have never been notified of a meeting.
It is apparent that, for some people, the Guild has done good. I do not feel that I have made any real effort to contribute anything as a member. I am going to try to do so in the future, because I believe that until you have done your very best to make an organizationusefulorganization useful, you have no right to leave it. For these reasons, I am not resigning.
(Copyright, 1940 by UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
