
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Wednesday—Yesterday evening I spoke at a dinner which Mrs. DwightDavis gave for the heads of the volunteer groups who are here for their American Red Cross annual meeting. They are such a devoted and active group, that it was a great pleasure to have this opportunity of seeing some of them.
Today I am on the way to Philadelphia to speak at a Democratic women's luncheon. Then I go to Washington, where we are to have the opportunity this evening of seeing a film made is England of various women's activities.
A few days ago I received word from the Metropolitan Area Hospitals Service Committee, of a plan to supply our sick and wounded service menservicemen in this area with a plant for Christmas and a Christmas tree for each ward.
There is no question but what there must be a great many boys in our hospitals here, who will not be able to go home for Christmas, and we would want them to have as cheerful a day as they possibly can. All contributions are to be sent to Mr. John J. Mackey, Treasurer of the Dime Savings Bank of Brooklyn. For each dollar contribution, the senders mamename will be placed on a Christmas card attached to a plant.
I hope very much that, in doing this work for the military hospitals in the Metropolitanmetropolitan area of New York City, we shall not forget the Veterans'veterans'Hospitalshospitals in the Statestate where we have patients both as a result of this war and former wars. Many of these men feel forgetten because they have been in hospitals for so long, and our present concern should include them.
I hope this same plan is being followed everywhere in the United States and wherever we have camps or hospitals. The civilians in the neighborhood should make it part of their Christmas celebration to include the soldiers who are far away from home.
Early this morning a lady appeared at my apartment. She had written me that she had designed a hat she felt would be a help to the war effort, because it would conserve material. She brought it in to show me how one hat could serve many occasions.
If you are a busy lady who can notcannot leave the office in time to change, all you have to do to have a new hat, is to turn this one inside out! Your fingers will have to be fairly capable, however, in order to pin the brim and the bows into place so that you look as though your hat had just come out of the bandbox.
I am not very clever at this sort of thing, but I watched her fascinated. I am sure that, for many women, this will satisfy a need and also an inclination to use their own ingenuity in making themselves look different.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
