
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Tuesday—The final moving day has arrived. The house is filled with barrels and boxes, the van is at the door and being packed as I write this. Before long the typewriter will be taken away from us, so we must get this finished soon!
One can not leave two houses with which one has had long years of association, without some reminiscent moments. I have spent many years away from these houses since my mother-in-law built them, but we lived here a number of years consecutively when our children were small. We lived here during the first years of my husband's illness and have been here on and off since my husband returned to public life in 1928.
Many human emotions have been recorded by many people within the walls of these rooms, and if walls could talk, an interesting book might be written. Perhaps the most stirring chapter would deal with the months and years after my husband came back here from the hospital and slowly took up new activities, adjusting meanwhile to a physical handicap which a very active and still young man certainly never could have envisioned.
As I took my maid into the new apartment yesterday, she remarked on how light and bright it was, and said she hoped the happineshappiness within would always keep pace with the light.
This is China Week and the United China Relief is trying to raise seven million dollars for the work of their participating agencies. China is one of our allies, more than that; China has been a center of interest for many people in this country for many years. I think that some of our citizens watch with sympathy the fight which China is putting up today against an aggressive enemy. They are even more impressed, however, by the fight which China is making at home to build a government and a way of life which is truly democratic and which will increase the well-being of all her people. Hardship and suffering is the lot of her people at present, but they show extraordinary fortitude.
All we can do is to send them whatever supplies they need, and I am sure that we shall do so even if it means sacrifice on our part.
Last night I took some friends to see "My Sister Eileen." We dined first at a restaurant in the Sixties and, having enjoyed very good food, we were in the proper mood to be entertained. We found the play light, amusing and well acted, but we hope that our own abode in Greenwich Village will not attract so many stray visitors as did the one in the play.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
