
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—I left Washington yesterday noon, and so poor Mrs. Helm, with her numberless questions on Inauguration Day procedures, was left with no one to turn to. I felt very guilty but, on the other hand, what is not arranged by now, will probably not be arranged. I can only hope that somehow or other, all will be in the places they want to be, and that they will see the people they want to see on Monday next.
During the morning, before I left, I was very happy to see an old friend, Mrs. William Phillips, for a few minutes. She will leave next month to join her husband in Italy and was in Washington to be with her daughter, who was given the Croix de Guerre by the French Ambassador for the work which she did in France under Miss Anne Morgan.
Someone told me last night that they did not think we could face the conditions which the French and the English are meeting with similar calm. All I could think of was some of my young acquaintances, who have been serving in France and in England with as great an apparent calm and devotion as any of the French or English people.
Yesterday morning, two members of the Field Foundation of Oklahoma came to tell me a little about their work. They are helping to rehabilitate prisoners and start them out with a better chance in the world. I hope this foundation will point the way to much better work than has ever been done in this field before.
The Junior League of Baltimore, Md., is carrying on another piece of rehabilitation work, which I think should be watched in all parts of the country. In connection with Johns Hopkins and the University Hospital, they operate two curative workshops. Rehabilitation work is done for orthopaedic cases and there is an opportunity today for their teachers and trained workers to go to England and to help out with the work there for civilian as well as military casualties. There are many people over there who will have to learn again how to handle themselves with a physical handicap which will be with them for the rest of their lives.
Last night I attended the dinner given for Mr. Adolph Berle and myself by a group of architects who are interested in housing, and who gave this dinner in the interests of a magazine called: "Common Sense". This magazine, published by Mr. Alfred Bingham and Mr. SoldmanSelden Rodman, is trying to strengthen and uphold the social objectives gained during the past few years. While they keep their pages open to many shades of opinion, they intend to bring as much weight as possible to bear on the side of liberal thinking and constructive criticism.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
