
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Tuesday—The Cabinet ladies gave their lunch at the White House for the ladies of the Senate yesterday, but, unfortunately, because of the cold and wind, it was held in the large dining room instead of out of doors. We looked wistfully at the grass and trees outside, for picnicking there is really half the fun of this particular group.
After it was over I went up to say a few words at the meeting of the Temple Sisterhood, and at 5:00 I went to Mrs. George Barnett's for tea. She gave the party in honor of Mrs. Frances Parkinson Keyes' new and recently published novel, "Parts Unknown." These parties are usually entertaining, for they draw a mixture of literary and social friends and I always enjoy seeing Mrs. Keyes.
In the evening I went to a parent-teachers meeting at the Central High School and then took the midnight train for New York City.
A number of errands have filled my day and I had the pleasure of seeing friends at lunch and tea. Shortly, I must be ready to attend the American Booksellers Association dinner. They have kindly asked me to speak and, while I am deeply appreciative of the courtesy, I hope they will not discover how nervous I am about my talk! I am to discourse about books to a group of people who know much more than I could ever know on the subject and who could probably make a much more interesting speech. I frequently wonder why we allow our sense of pleasure in being asked to do a thing take us into a situation which, at the last moment, fills us with trepidation.
There has come to me today a most interesting little folder entitled, "Youth Builders, Incorporated." The program seems interesting. ..."Including direct contaccontact work with youth groups and membership services to adults responsible for the training of youth—Its program is preventive in that it strives to work out the normal problems of youth in order to keep them from becoming abnormal. Development of the following three attitudes is, therefore, emphasized as a basis for the ideal community living:
If they can accomplish something really tangible along these lines, they will have gone a long way toward making democracy efficient and solving the problems of tomorrow. When I know more about this and if it proves as interesting as it promises to be, I will tell you more.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
