
                  
                     Hyde Park, N. Y.HYDE PARK, Wednesday—I reached my destination on Election Day and, as we waited to hear the returns Tuesday night, I was increasingly glad that I had not stayed away. It was a temptation, however, to stay with my children and trust to luck that I might be able to get through on Monday night.
It hisishearteneingheartening to find that Senator Wagner with his very fine record, came through with such a good vote. It is impossible to analyze or to understand the reason why one person was elected here and another defeated there, so soon after the election, but I think it is a healthy thing not to have the country represented too predominately by either party, for its puts both on their mettle. On the whole, I think it is as easy to put through a well thought out program when the two major parties are more nearly equally represented in Congress.
The other big piece of news, which I know will interest people from one end of the country to the other, is the fact that the King and Queen of England are coming to visit Canada and will include a visit to the United States in their trip. We may not like pomp and ceremony and we may approve of democracy in our government and in our everyday lives, but there is a glamour for us about royalty in other nations. We have always been happy to welcome representatives of other lands to our shores. There will be, I think, a particular interest in King George and Queen Elizabeth who are greatly admired by many people in this country.
The fact that we have a curiosity about the rulers of other nations and that we enjoy seeing them, especially when they represent our English cousins, savors a little of the pride which a small boy feels in showing off his older brother. It sometimes seems to me that many of the European nations still look upon the United States as not quite grown up. We are grown up and in many ways we have outgrown our elders, just as the younger brother frequently outdistances the elder whom he has admired and looked up to. He will still enjoy, however, saying: "Look at my older brother over there, he made the record for running the broad jump that stood for many years."
We have great pride in our hospitality in this country. We want to show what we have to offer along many different lines to the visitor from other nations and at times we want to give with both hands in the spirit of lavish hospitality. We may not give gifts in quite the way which is customary in some other countries, but we do give an intangible outflow of cordiality to the guest who comes to us from foreign parts.
We will be happy as a nation to receive this royal young couple. We may learn much from contact with them, and many of us who do not feel close to the problems of Europe may attain a better understanding and a more sympathetic attitude because of this visit. We will hope that the King and Queen will carry away with them a realization that the people of the United States have in their hearts good willgoodwill and kindliness toward the rest of the world.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
