
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Sunday—Friday's little Democratic gathering was really a gala occasion. There were a hundred women there. Some of them, I am sure, are not registered Democrats, but all looked happy to be together and they filled the little inn to capacity. I have always liked this little house near the Vanderbilt mansion.
The whole place is owned by the Governmentgovernment and preserved as a museum, but I still like the little house better than I like the formal and very beautiful big house. The little innis surrounded by beautiful trees, which are one of the great beauties of this place. Old Dr. Hoosick and Dr. Bard started bringing trees from all over the world and, I imagine, there is a greater variety growing here than on any other place up and down the Hudson River.
While we were waiting outside for everybody to gather, they asked me to go over and speak to a boy who was home from Africa, and was on leave from Halloran Hospital for the week-endweekend. He was hurt near Algiers and had a cast on his leg and foot, but he is gaining and seemed very happy to be out of the hospital and with his people in Hyde Park.
The house is full of children this week-endweekend, ranging from a baby a year old, to an eight-year-old girl. The sound of young voices does add enormously to the cheerfulness of any house. The older childrenrode yesterday morning and then came back for a swim. The little four-year-old boy couldn't wait when he arrived Friday evening to show us that since he had been here last on a visit, he had learned to swim without a safety belt. So, before we had supper, he had to get into his swimming trunks and jump off the diving board into the deep water. I must say I stood in admiration, for at the age of four I was such a timid creature, I feel quite sure that nothing would have made me jump into the deep water.
The days are still warm and one can swim and lie in the sun, but the nights out on my sleeping porch are almost cold. I can snuggle under two blankets, look up at the stars, listen for the birds in the early morning and almost forget that this isn't the calm and beautiful world it seems to be.
How slowly human beings seem to learn the lesson of love instead of hate. It is important that each one of us in our own hearts should wipe out resentment and bitterness whenever we detect it, for it is the sum total of what we do as individuals that makes the world.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
