
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—When I was in New York City yesterday afternoon, I bought the first ticket for the "Page One Award" Ball. I hope that it will be a great success, for the proceeds of this ball will be turned over to war relief agencies.
I am convinced that we shall need more and better training schools for a number of different occupations. I do not think there are enough occupational therapists in the country to meet the needs of the service hospitals. I feel sure that our juvenile delinquency problem would not be so great if we were not losing so many Boy Scout leaders and physical education people, who would ordinarily handle the supervised recreation in the schools.
It is right that they should go into service if they are young men, but young women and older men and women could be trained to do a great deal of this work. I know many men and women who, up to the age of sixty can keep up with the youngsters in camping operations, even if they can notcannot run and play games quite as well.
I always hear from older women that, because of age, they have been rejected for a specific job they feel qualified to fill. Forty-five seems to be the magic age at which you become incapacitated for many types of work. Perhaps, because of my own age, I wish very much that people between 45 and 65 could be given a more careful physical examination.
If they are proved sound physically and mentally, and still able to do the things required for some particular occupation, I think exceptions should be made and they should not be ruled out from an active and useful life. This is important for both men and women, because in some cases it means that they are barred from earning a living and become a burden either to the community or to their immediate families, and I know of no people who enjoy that situation.
I reached home this morning and met our daughter and small grandson on their arrival. They are on their way to spend the last few weeks with our son-in-law, while he is in training before he is sent overseas.
Four years is a fascinating age because the world is such an interesting place. Johnny Boettiger was thrilled at travelling on a "streamliner." He could hardly wait to walk the length of the train to see the station, and once in the White House, a glimpse of the soldiers somewhere beyond the trees made it impossible to keep him indoors—he had to talk to them at once! It took real persuasion and a piece of toast with marmalade to get him back into the house for a bath and a nap before luncheon and a continuation of his trip.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
