
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday—I had a few visitors yesterday afternoon and went out in the evening for a half an hour to speak to a group here in the District. This morning was free, and I went for the first ride I have had in months. It was good to get out again, even if the ground was rather soft in spots. The thought that I could not ride again until Friday made me feel that I had better be very conservative, so as not to be completely stiffened up tomorrow.
Today I have had a delightful luncheon with Mrs. Robert Jackson, wife of the Attorney General, and I have no further official engagements.
I find that quite inadvertently I made two statements which were not true in this column, and I must correct them. Both of them were about thrift shops, one in Washington and one in New York City. When I mentioned the Thrift Shop Ball which I attended, I said it was the one thrift shop here. As a matter of fact, the Women's League for Peace has had a thrift shop in the District of Columbia for two years.
In New York City I said that the Frontier Nursing Service was participating in a thrift shop called "The Bargain Box",," but I should have added other organizations have been working in the same cause much longer. They are the Association for Aid to Crippled Children, the Henry Street Visiting Nursing ServiceHenry Street Visiting Nurse Service, the New York Infirmary for Women and Children, the Lincoln Hospital, and the Metropolitan Hospital.
I have been familiar with all these charities for a long time, and there is no excuse for my not knowing that they were the ones who founded this now well established thrift shop. I apoligizeapologize for not having mentioned them because, of course, one wants to stimulate the interests of people from every group. Thrift shops can only flourish when they have a wide clientileclientele of people who bring them things to sell, and people who come to buy.
Mr. Robert S. Bowen, the scrapbook editor of the Madison Enterprise Recorder, Madison, Florida, begs me to urge every Southern poet to send his poetry in to him. He is planning to publish a Suwanee River anthology of Southern poets, and he wants to include the work of as many writers as possible. The South should bring forth many poets, for it is a land where the countryside and other conditions inspire poetic expression.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
