
                  
                     Hyde Park, N. Y.HYDE PARK, Wednesday —Of course, just as I moved all my tables for supper to the porch, last night, the weather cleared nicely. But I did not move out under the trees again.
The guests began to arrive at 4 o'clock and it was pleasant indeed to sit out by the swimming pool, while some went in for a dip. Then we had supper, afterwards clearing the rooms for dancing and singing. We ended just before midnight with the Virginia reel, which left everyone hot and breathless, but in fine mood to go home.
The lovely purple loose-strife, which grows in marshy ground, is just beginning to come out. It makes the marsh adjoining our little ponds a blaze of color, reflected in the water. I remember it all through the year as one of the most brilliant of nature's shows.
I have just been sent a perfectly delightful cook book, published in Sweden and imported into this country by the Albert Bonnier publishing house. Mrs. Akerstrom, the author, is the head of a famous cooking school in Sweden, where Crown Princess Ingrid of Denmark, daughter of Crown Prince Gustaf of Sweden, and her cousins, Princesses Martha and Margaretha, nieces of King Gustaf, all learned to be excellent cooks.
It is interesting that these princesses were given such practical training and are proud of their achievements in the household arts. Each is credited with some special dish of her own inventing.
If many of us in this country, who have the time, would give more practical study to tasks in our own homes, I think it would be truly valuable. We really do suffer from lack of interest in household arts—perhaps because they are not a fashionable occupation.
It is still cloudy today and rain threatens. I have another party, but this one is more serious and we are meeting to discuss some of the problems of workers' education. This is easier to do indoors, for though I hesitate even to suggest such a thing—most of my neighbors will not acknowledge it—honesty compels me to say there are mosquitoes about us and their humming and their bites are distracting to orderly meetings.
In the midst of the party yesterday afternoon, I was told that the Philadelphia operator wished to speak to me. In a few minutes Franklin, Jr., came on the wire to announce that his wife, Ethel, and a new baby boy were both doing well. I had not expected to hear quite so soon. It certainly is very pleasant to know that the two principals in this happy event are getting along so well. Sometime before long I shall have to journey down to Philadelphia to see the young family, for Franklin, Jr., tells me the baby is very beautiful.
Well, that's what he'd be expected to say.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
