
                  HYDE PARK, N.Y.
                     —We spent the day yesterday getting ready for the President's return. In the morning three of the people who came up from Washington planned the work with me and in the evening the people who came down from Campobello arrived, so that when I met the President on the steps at about eleven-fifteen p.m. everything in the house at least, was running smoothly.

                  Mrs. (Ellen) Woodward had come up from Washington in the morning and we did manage to eat our luncheon out under the trees and get in some swimming and a little lying in the sun. I thought she must be tired but this morning she said: "You may think people can go to bed when the President is expected but I had to sit up and come to the window when I heard his voice as he called the dogs and seemed in such fine spirits after such a long day."
We had been home about half an hour and were sitting in the President's little study while I heard an account of the day in Quebec and all that he had seen and heard on his way down through Vermont, New Hampshire and Massachusetts. Suddenly the door bell rang and thinking that everybody had gone to bed, I dashed out to find Miss Le Hand
                   who had just driven herself home from Albany, so she came in and joined us and we talked until about one o'clock. Finally I got everyone to go to bed and Jack and Jill, the two Irish setters came back to me as naturally as if I had never been away, trotted up ahead of me to bed and lay down in my room in their accustomed places. Of course, the minute Anna and John come back I shall be deserted but it is nice to know that they are intermittently faithful anyway!
This morning Mrs. Woodward, my husband and I went to church and to my surprise we found quite a crowd outside when we came out. I think everybody driving by had discovered that the President was at church, parked their cars and stood waiting for him to appear. I started with five for lunch and we ended by having fifteen!
One young cousin, Forbes Amory stopped in on his way to Washington, Mr. Fred Delano, my husband's uncle, came from Newburgh with his son-in-law and a couple of grandchildren. Mrs. O'Day and several others turned up also and it really was nice to see them all again.
Now for a quiet afternoon with plenty of mail surrounding us.
