
                  
               HYDE PARK, FRIDAYFriday
                  —It rained all day yesterday in New York City, but I managed to do a number of errands and was able to leave for Hyde Park this morning at quarter of nine. I drove up very comfortably since there was comparatively little traffic coming out of the city. As I looked at the winding lane of traffic on the other side, I was rather glad that I was not going south or coming into the city to go to work.
The sun is shining again and everything looks beautiful. Two days of rain does give the countryside a grand washing, and everything in our little vegetable garden seems to have grown visibly.
We have only two hours here because, at 1:00 o'clock, we must leave for Catskill, N. Y.N.Y., where I am to dedicate a camp which the public schools are inaugurating for the benefit of their pupils this summer. Then we shall drive straight to New York City, for I must be at the meeting of the Mother's Health Association of the Lower East Side at Cooper Union at 8:00 o'clock. Then I take a midnight plane for Chicago, on my way to St. Paul, Minn., and Miss Thompson goes back to Washington. This flying trip was an added reason why I was glad to see the sun come out this morning.
When I agreed to go to the regional conference of the Women's Division of the Democratic National Committee, I stipulated that they must take the risk of bad flying weather, for I could only do it if I could fly. Nevertheless, I always have a guilty feeling. If I had not been able to get there, I am sure they would have been much annoyed with me and I would have been deeply distressed.
Several days ago I noticed the report in the papers of the death of a woman I have know for a long while. Miss Julia K. Jaffray was associated with the National Committee on Prisons and Prison Labor for 33 years. She came to the United States from Galt, Canada, as stenographer to Miss Helen Varick Boswell, who was secretary of that committee. Miss Jaffray, herself, served as secretary for 25 years. This Canadian woman became a leader and wielded great influence in many women's groups in our country.
She organized the club women and worked with labor and manufacturer'smanufacturers in a campaign for the abolition of a system of contract labor in prisons, and helped to develop the Federal Institution for Women at Alderson, West Virginia. Miss Jaffray's interests were varied, but her accomplishments in prison work have always been outstanding. I think her name will be long remembered in many women's groups and will serve to cement the friendship between the women of Canada and the United States.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.,)
