
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Thursday—It seems to be settled beyond any question that the President is going back to Washington to assume during four more years the very heavy responsibilities which those years must bring. One can only hope that the people and all their elected representatives will join with him in helping to meet these years with courage and efficiency.
Constructive criticism will be needed, of course, and I have always believed it to be very helpful; but even more important is cooperation and willingness to bear the burdens that we must bear to win the war and then to start the world on its journey to what we hope will be permanent peace. As individual citizens we will all need to educate ourselves and to think through many personal and local problems, as well as national and international ones.
Along the educational line, I think you will find that a list of books which has just been published by the National Conference of Christians and Jews will be very helpful to you. You can get it from their Chicago office, and it includes not only adult reading, but reading for the very young and intermediate ages.
Yesterday morning I went down to New York City to attend the wedding in the afternoon of my friends, Mrs. Trude Pratt and T/Sgt. Joseph Lash. Sgt. Lash is just back on a temporary assignment after 18 months in the Pacific. It was a very happy wedding. But the shadow of the war must hang over even the happiest hours, and for people like these two, who have so much desire to make their lives of use, one can only hope that when the war is over they can begin quickly to realize their dreams of working together usefully for society as a whole.
In the evening I saw Frank Fay in "Harvey." Without his remarkable acting, so well seconded by Josephine Hull, there would be little to this play. As it is, it has charm and humor, and I can recommend it for a pleasant evening.
On the way back to Hyde Park on the train this morning several people—particularly the trainmen, who are old friends of mine—came up to express their pleasure at the outcome of the election and to ask me to give their regards to the President. I think some strength must come to a man when such a great volume of good wishes pours in on him, and when I arrived home I found him sitting surrounded by a sea of telegrams.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
