
                  
                     WashingtonWASHINGTON, Monday—The weather here is glorious. Yesterday I spent an hour and a half on horseback along the Potomac River, which was a grand contrast to many hours on the train during the past two weeks.
In going over the various things I have seen on this recent trip, I am impressed with a number of things I did not have space to mention in this column. I want to speak of one thing, even at this late date.
In Lawrence, Kansas, there is an Indian school called Haskell Institute, which teaches trades as well as academic subjects. I was enormously interested by some of the things they were developing and with the very practical training they were giving in their shops. This group of young boys and girls were alert and intelligent looking and were evidently keeping up the tradtionstraditions of their race for physical, fitness and prowess. Some of them werewore their native costumes and they were beautiful to look at. I still remember one young man's feather headdress which was blowing in the wind. A girl presented me with a lovely beadwork headband. I wish I could have spent more time with the youngsters and had an opportunity to talk with them.
As long as we are educational subjects, I wonder if any of you have seen a book which is now on sale, called: "They Still Draw Pictures."??" The pictures were drawn by Spanish children and the thing which interests me about them is the effect that living in a war torn country has had on these children. They have approximately the same urge to express themselves through this medium you would find in any other group of young people who would produce drawings on the subjects which these youngsters have chosen. It seems tragic that if we must have war it can no longer be confined to adults, for it means that not one generation suffers, but the future is mortgaged in an entirely new way.
Many efforts have been made in these days to educate youth in ways which will lead them from war and wherever we find more emphasis placed on education for democracy, I think we can be encouraged. The Presbyterian Church celebrated yesterday the 150th anniversary of the founding of the general assembly of that denomination. They are inaugurating a campaign to help their various colleges and they stress the place which religion holds in the individual life of a student and the effect that this should have on citizenship in a democracy. It seems to me that the development of responsibility toward any of the really important things of life is valuable to all of us in our citizenship.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
