
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, Monday—In the late afternoon yesterday it cleared up again. By the time a friend of mine arrived with her little girl, who is going to spend a few days with us, it was a warm, beautiful summer afternoon.
I spoke too soon when I said yesterday was a quiet day. I was inveigled into unpacking three cases and three barrelsinbarrels in the cellar of the big house and then into playing several games of deck tennis, until I was so weary that I wondered if I would be able to move at all this morning. Strangely enough, I seem to have limbered up again. However, I suppose I shall go right back and spend just as much time today on these active exercises.
The other day, Mr. Lunsford P. Yandell came to see me in New York City. From his brief casebriefcase, he took three copies of a little book and told me the story of how he came across it. Because of his interest in the book, he located the original publisher and found several people who at one time or another had endorsed it. He is now having it republished, feeling that in the present crisis many people will find it valuable. In a letter to me after his visit, there occurs the following sentence:
"Conscientious parents are faced with the problem of giving their children a set of standards for their lives, some theory on which to work, whether it is called religion, or by some other name. The greatbarriergreat barrier to arousing a youngster's interest in religion as it is taught in the churches, is the impatience of the child. To young people the Bible is a fearsomely large book."
Mr. Yandell found a comment by Mr. Dale Carnegie, which strikes me as particularly interesting: "This little book contains the words of the greatest teacher of human relations the world has ever known. There is an urgent need for such a book, it should have been published centuries ago."
Well, here it is. You can carry it in your pocket or in your shopping bag and read it in odd moments. It is the complete sayings of Jesus, taken from the King James' Version, arranged by Arthur Hinds.
My generation was accustomed to reading some verses from the Bible morning and evening, or to having them read aloud in the family circle. Most of us had our favorite chapters and verses which we learned by heart and which still remain in our minds, no matter how our own special religious beliefs have developed. This is a good book to have, good company at all times.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
