
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—This is Easter Sunday and the touch of spring
I was looking for has really begun to appear in Washington.
This is the season when we are reminded that faith and hope are a
part of our religion. And surely this year, and at this particular
season, we need both as part of our everyday consciousness.
The other day, some ministers of the church asked me, and I guess
asked themselves, what leadership the church could or should take in
the post-warpostwar period. How should or could it be defined, where should it
begin, where should it end?
It is probably not possible for anyone to answer these questions,
but on this Easter Day, in hundreds of churches, people will think of
the Resurrection. It was a day in the dim past when, to some people,
the hopes for the present and future had seemed to die, and then
suddenly came to life again, to live eternally in the hearts of men who
believe in the story of Christ as a symbol of what all of us must go
through and can go through and still come out triumphant.
Men on the field of battle and men and women at home are going
through daily crucifixion, and only faith and hope can make their victory
sure.
We don't know when an invasion of Europe will begin, but we do
know that when it does begin it will be the great test, not only of
our men in the field, but of us at home. What we have given our men to
live for is what they will fight for. Everyone who has a man in the
fighting area must carry his share of responsibility for a particular
individual when crucial days come.
All of us, however, whether we have men at the front or not, must
carry the responsibilities in a country in which the citizens themselves
are responsible for what their country stands for. Is it a
country of faith and hope? Is it a country for which every man in the
field will fight with the assurance in his heart that his loved ones
are daily making a better home for the future?
Easter is a soul-searching time this year, for just as the
Apostles who met Christ walking on the road were somewhat frightened,
so each one of us, meeting our test of Easter faith and hope, will be
somewhat frightened at the responsibility it entails. God grant us
all the courage and constancy of faith to see us through this period
of our history.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
