
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—I had a very pleasant talk yesterday with Miss Laurentine B. Collins, director of school-community relations in Detroit, who was presiding here at a meeting on physical fitness.
Miss Collins feels that great advances have been made in creating an understanding among different groups in the communities, but that much more remains to be done; and in that I heartily agree. I wish we could use all of our programs to improve physical health as community programs which would draw different groups in the community together for participation in healthful relaxation.
A group of officers and men from the Navalnaval hospital came in at 3 o'clock, but I was obliged to cut my usual time with them rather short, because the President and I left at a little before 4 o'clock to meet our guests, His Excellency, the Governor-General of Canada, and Her Royal Highness, the Princess Alice at the station. theyThey had been told yesterday that our Washington weather was almost summer- likesummer-like, and then suddenly we decided to have winter again, with cold and sporadic showers descending upon us!
The President and the Governor-GeneralGovernor General braved the weather in an open car. I was glad that Princess Alice and I could be more comfortable following in a closed car. We drove around for a look at the Capitol, then up Constitution Avenue and in through the Easteast gate of the White House grounds. Military honors on arrival always give a colorful touch. Then we went into the diplomaticDiplomaticreceptionReceptionroomRoom, where the Vice-PresidentVice President and the members of the Cabinet waited to be introduced to our guests.
In the evening the President took the Governor-GeneralGovernor General to the White House Correspondents' dinner, while Princess Alice and her Llady-in-waiting, Miss Vera Grenfell, went with me to the Girl Scouts' birthday banquet at the Mayflower Hotel. This party was given for the leaders of the council, and I was particularly impressed by the speeches made by the wives of foreign representatives. Girl Scouting has grown in many countries throughout the world and I think is destined to grow increasingly in the years to come, as it is fundamentally a good program for training girls in citizenship.
The Washington Choral Society is giving a concert in Constitution Hall on March 27, at which Brahms' "Requiem" and Bach's "Magnificat" will be sung. I am looking forward to this program, and also to the concert to be given by the concert band and chorus of the 
                     U. S. Navy School of Music on May 2 at Constitution Hall.
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
