
                  
                     Chicago Ill.CHICAGO, Friday—Something new is always happening to us. Last night, as I came off the stage in GreenbayGreen Bay, Wisconsin, I noticed a distinct flurry of excitement among the ladies and that one of them had burst into tears. On inquiry I found that two men, who had been working in the box office with them all day, and who had claimed to be teachers from somewhere in the county who were there to help out, had taken the time when I had begun to speak and everyone had gone to the doors to listen, to clean out the box office receipts and skip.
As far as I know, this particular thing has never happened to me before. Fortunately the major part of the cash had been removed earlier in the day, but still it gave one a slightly uncomfortable feeling. I thought at once of teletyping the state police, but was told that Wisconsin considered itself so immune from the need of protection that they did not have state police.
To counteract this rather unpleasant episode, I must record the real thrill which came to me when I was introduced to the writer, Zona Gale. She tells me we have very nearly met on one other occasion and I can only register my regret at not knowing her sooner.
I told you that I would report on my travelling wardrobe, but I only brought the evening part of it with me, having decided that the day clothes would be better suited for a colder season. I must say, however, that my evening dress has so far proved a great comfort and can easily be adapted to any type of entertainment.
I find that its zipper always works, which is not always true of the pesky little things. The other day, on another dress, owing to my own rather harsh treatment, I had to have myself sewn into it and only Miss Thompson's clever fingers succeeded in returning the zipper to its proper function.
In my mail I find a letter reminding me of the fact that in this country we are given to the celebration of special days and they are multiplying year by year. Many of them are conceived for very worthy causes and here is one which sounds most helpful—Cleveland, Ohio, has launched a national campaign which they call "Sweetest Day",," and on Saturday, October 22nd, all over the United States these committees will ask the public to observe once again a day which features "remembering the forgotten" by giving a gift or saying a kind word or doing a kind deed for some shut-in or lonely person.
(Copyright, 1938, by UNited Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
