
                  
                     Ellsworth, MaineELLSWORTH, Maine, Thursday—Yesterday was a really successful day. My mother-in-law saw so many of her young people that she was completely satisfied, and that happens rarely. The two youngest great-grandchildren behaved themselves extremely well. There were no tears from little Haven, whom my mother-in-law has not seen since he was three months old.
He liked the concentrated attention of his mother, two grandmothers, a great-grandmother and Miss Thompson. Only the two dachshunds were dissatisfied. Finally, one of them went up to the baby and licked his face, seeming to feel that in this way he would gain some attention himself.
Of course, little Franklin, 3rdIII, having left Hyde Park so recently, knew us all quite well and was very glad to see us. We were all glad to see Franklin, Jr., also, who is laid up with an infected leg as a result of what he thought was a mere scratch acquired during gunnery practice while at sea some days ago.
Not far from Ipswich, Mass., we stopped for a very brief lunch and the rest of the day we drove steadily. There seemed to be a great deal of traffic going south and west, but we made good time and finally turned south at Bath, Me., to go to Sebasco Lodge. They had a cottage for us right on the water and it was really a beautiful spot.
I can well see that this is a marvelous summer resort for children and grownups alike. There is a golf course, tennis courts, wonderful rocks to climb and a small fresh water lake not far from the ocean, where swimming must be warmer than in the sea.
Last night I finished reading a charming story in verse by Alice Duer Miller, which I have never happened to read before. It is called "Forsaking All Others" and achieves in a remarkably concise manner, not only descriptions of character, but a vivid description of incidents.
I am so interested to read that Mrs. Greenway King is going to be chairman of the board of the American Woman's Voluntary Services. She has always shown great organizing ability for work of this kind and will do it very well and cooperate with the Mayor's Committee in every way.
Mr. John D. Rockefeller's credo, given in yesterday's New York Times, is very fine. The first two paragraphs seem vital for every one of us to remember;
"I believe in the supreme worth of the individual and in his right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
"I believe that every right implies a responsibility; every opportunity, an obligation; every possession, a duty."
We are now on our way to Campobello.
)COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
