
                  WASHINGTON, Monday
                     —The wind seems to have transferred itself from Oklahoma to Washington, and I nearly blew away as I rode along the Potomac yesterday and it was even worse this morning. On the south lawn however, the sun seems to be shining and whether the numbers of people shield each other I do not know, but it does not feel very cold. The people began to come before ten o'clock this morning, and at ten o'clock Bill and I went out and walked around, speaking to the people who were giving a puppet show, and the band which was then playing. We had a chance also to thank all the Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts and Girl Reserves who keep order and play games with the children every year on Easter Monday.
After that my first press conference since my return took place. Out again to receive a basket of flowers from the children of the Good Samaratin.Samaritan At one-fifteen Mr. and Mrs. Adolph Miller brought Mrs. William Phillips in for lunch. Mrs. Phillips is over here for a brief two weeks to see her boys during their Easter vacation and then she returnreturns to Italy where her husband is now our Ambassador.
She told me something very interesting about the women of Italy. She says that under the new regime they are allowed to enter any profession or business and are doing so in great numbers and that a married woman receives the same pay for similar work that a man does. This is a great departure from the Italian custom of the past.
I took Mrs. Phillips over to see my husband in his office for a few minutes after lunch, and then I made my second round of the grounds speaking this time to the members of the Boys' Band from the National Training School for Boys, which plays for a good part of the afternoon.
After that Miss Walrath who is very much interested in a charity came in to tell me something about the work which they are doing. It is called "The Cradle",Cradle," in Evanston, Illinois and they gather in babies for adoption and give them very careful care and then place them in homes.
A little after three my husband went out to greet the assembled company on the lawn and I understand that already at this hour forty-thousand odd people have come in through the gates.
At four o'clock a very few children, cousins and intimate friends, are coming in to hundhunt some Easter eggs in the house, have a look out at the lawn, and have supper with Bill and Sara and Kate.
At five there will be guests for tea, and in the meantime I am trying to catvhcatch up on some of the mail which is covering my desk .
A quiet evening is before us for which I think many of us are rather thankful as today seems busy on account of the number of people so active on the south lawn!
