
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—Lunching with the ladies of the Senate yesterday was very pleasant. I particularly enjoyed having in front of me a most beautiful centerpiece of magnolia blossoms, white against their dark green leaves. At the ends of the table were vases with white Easter lillieslilies and snapdragons, but it seemed particularly beautiful to me to look into those cup-like magnolia blossoms.
The District of Columbia librarians came yesterday to look at the books which the American Booksellers have presented to the White House library. Then they joined my garden party on the lawn. It was the first garden party we have had this year and an almost perfect day. Now and then the wind would take a lovely lady's hat and she would have to clutch it, but otherwise it was neither too warm nor too cold.
The Marine Band played delightfully and, in listening to them, I forgot to be tired. The grass was particularly lovely, and so I appreciated the desire of the gardener to keep me moving just a little so the long line of guests would not wear a path across the lawn.
Later, I received the Hungarian Minister and his wife for the first time since their arrival. Then I had guests from California, Dr. and Mrs. Remsen Bird, who came to spend the night. We had a very pleasant dinner and were much interested in seeing some photographs which Mr. Thomas Campbell brought back from his stay in England.
He has also seen my aunt and uncle, Mr. and Mrs. David Gray, in Ireland. It was delightful to receive first hand news of them and to have Mr. Campbell say that he thought Mr. Gray was doing a wonderful job, and that he enjoyed being with them. Mr. Campbell feels, however, that Ireland could be producing more foodstuffs for herself and for others than she is doing at the present time.
This is sad news, for I have heard from other sources that many factories are closing down and there is great unemployment and resultant hardship among the people there. If they could put their energies into intensive agricultural production, therefore, it might make life easier and this would seem a partial answer to their problems.
This morning I am trying to catch up on what seems like almost an unending amount of mail. There are also a good many things which must be read. The President sounded quite cheerful and very busy this morning, and I think everything is progressing well with him.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
