
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—We were joined at luncheon yesterday by Mrs. Charles Dana Gibson, who is in Washington on her way back to New York City from Virginia. The younger members of the family were fascinated by her, because she is still the Gibson girl of her husband's drawings; and though some of the youngsters had never heard of the Gibson girl, they fell a victim to her charm of manner and her beauty. All of the Langhorne sisters are people one has to notice! Her sister, Lady Astor, sometimes brings irritation down on her head, but admiration as well. She never goes unnoticed!
Every minute of the day yesterday was beautiful, and I do not think I have ever enjoyed the spring flowering of bushes and trees as I have this year.
At 1 A. M.a.m. I listened to the radio and went to sleep considerably cheered by the news that our new landings in the Pacific had been made with so little opposition. Just why seems a mystery, and I wonder if the Japanese are trying some new tricks. But I think our men are pretty well accustomed to tricks by now and will not be caught napping.
The American Association for the United Nations has notified me that a number of Governorsgovernors have issued proclamations calling on citizens of their states to observe Dumbarton Oaks Week, from April 16 to 22. The observance of this week implies that groups will meet and discuss the proposals; that everybody will individually read and understand what these proposals are, realizing that they are just proposals. Senator Vandenberg has said that he wished any organization to be more or less fluid and able to change as need arose. The rest of us, I think, must understand that whatever organization is set up will undoubtedly change in every section to meet changed conditions in different situations.
There is a great deal of excitement at present over the question of votes in the assembly. This has always seemed to me a point which would have to come up for discussion, since in some cases there are more people combined in a single group, whereas in others there is a different combination of people. But that is why we have the San Francisco conference. If there were not these questions, there would be no point in having a conference.
There is also a great deal of excitement about the meat situation in our own country and in Canada, and articles are written explaining the various reasons for this and that. They need to be written, and people need to understand many things which at present they know little about. But that doesn't mean that we cannot come to agreements and set up an organization where such things can continue to be discussed in the future!
(COPYRIGHT 1945 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
