
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Monday—Yesterday afternoon the President and I attended the Spanish War Veterans reunion on the lawn of our neighbor, Mr. Moses Smith. I marveled at Mrs. Smith who is calm about having her lawn trampled on and never complains about the extra work these parties give her. During lunch she told me that she had been brought up by a Dutch Reform mother who thought dancing wicked, but that all her youth she had longed to dance. Perhaps that is why she is so understanding about letting her young people enjoy the simple pleasures of life.
I have always admired her wisdom in taking so much trouble to give her children a good time in their own home. Many mothers who dearly love their children, nevertheless give them the feeling that anything which causes extra work or upsets the home routine is too much trouble, and so the youngsters grow up to feel that all good timertimes must be enjoyed outside the home.
In the early evening I came to New York City and had an amusing time at the station there. Not having any bag, I took no porteporter and in a leisurely manner wandered out to the underground entrance for taxicabs, and there I watched a typical scene which would have mystified a stranger.
Everyone was in such a hurry! People who would ordinarily have been considerate of the comfort and convenience of others, jostled and pushed each other about. No one was cross, this was just a game. I felt a little like the Chinese student who wondered what we did with the time we saved. However, the hour was growing late so I made my way to the street level. A voice behind me called: "Lady, here's a cab!", but knowing that I would reach my destination more quickly if I walked up one flight of steps, I paid no attention to the voice behind me.
Before 6:00 this morning the car was at my door to take Mrs. Klotz and me to the boat which was to take us to meet the "Normandie" at quarantine. The sunrise was very beautiful and we passed many ships under way even at this early hour. It was easy transferring to the big ship from the upper deck of our small boat. I had half expected to find Secretary and Mrs. Morgenthau still asleep, for it was only 7:00 o'clock, but they were both up and through breakfast. The excitement of coming home is great even if you have been gone only a short time.
They gave us coffee and rolls while they talked of their experiences. Apparently it was as warm on the coast of France as it has been here on our warmest days. Like almost all other homecoming citizens of the United States whom I have seen of late, this entire family seems to be glad to meet world problems here.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
