
                  WASHINGTON
                     —We are all deeply grieved over the death of a young cousin who roomed with our boy, Franklin, jJunior, in his first years at College and then went off to the Argentine. That any one so young should be so unhappy is very sad and one can only hope that an all wise and sympathetic Providence may understand the sorrows of a youthful heart.
This morning after a very early ride, I visited the exhibitions which have been brought over by the foreign dele atesdelegates as well as those brought by our own delegates from the various States for the Rural Women's meeting. England, from her far flung empire, has collected an extraordinary variety of beautiful things made with the greatest of skill. I never realized before that Honiton made such beautiful lace. I understand the skill had almost died out, but is now being revived amongst the women. The knitting patterns are fascinating. Some of our own exhibitions showed a return to household arts of bygone days and a hand skill together with training in design and color which is vastly encouraging. In the English exhibit are some photographs of rooms entirely furnished by women even the furniture being made by women. This is closely paralleled in a Nassau County, New York State, exhibit where except for a few things made by some Youth Administration boys, everything in the room is refinished and upholstered and made by women, even to the back drop which was painted by a farm woman at eleven p.m. one night by the lights of her car, the material tacked on the barn door so that they might have a rural scene to hang outside of their make-believe window here!

                  Mrs. Morgenthau, Mrs. Genevieve Forbes Herrick, Mrs. Scheider and I lunched on the South Porch at a quarter to one. At one-thirty the foreign delegates and some of the officers of the International Associated Rural Women of the World came over to be shown the White House and Mrs. Morgenthau and Mrs. Wallace helped me by going around with us and telling those who could not hear me about the rooms. We visited everything including the kitchen and I said good-bye to them at two-thirty with great regret for they were an appreciative audience.
