Here I am repeating last year's experience! I am flying to Seattle leaving the large family group at the White House, not on Christmas Eve to be sure, but this trip is somewhat longer and the purpose of my going is to reach my destination in time to be a little useful to my daughter and son-in-law.
Very suddenly yesterday I decided that with so many of the family at home, they would have a very jolly time. After an illness which has not in any way been serious, it seemed to me as though I might be rather helpful if I could be in Seattle to do some of the things that the mother of a family does on Christmas Eve! So last night I took off from the airport in Washington for the west, praying that the weather would hold good all the way and that I would reach my destination tonight.
As in so many things that one does, I am both glad and sorry. Very glad to be with Anna and John,SistySistie and BuzBuzz, and very sorry to leave the family gathering at the White House, but I think mothers were meant to go where they can be most useful, and I hope I am going to arrive in time, though the weather may of course, defeat me.
During this past week so many Christmas greetings have come to the President and to me at the White House, I feel I want' to take this opportunity to tell all those who have thought kindly of us, how deeply we appreciate their remembrances. I marvel at the many people who have taken time to write us long personal messages on their cards, and even though I can notcannot acknowledge each message by letter, I hope many of those who thought of us will see this column and accept our thanks and deep appreciation.
It was a bit of a rush yesterday, for I received at two teas from four to six o'clock, and in addition there were all the last minute arrangements to make, lists for the rooms to be occupied, and the numbers of people for every meal. One should never leave anything to be done at the last minute, but one always does, so in consequence my day was none too long.
It was a lovely day, however, and I rejoiced in every minute of sunshine, realizing that it meant a better chance of making my trip on time. I confess to some interest in making my first trip on a sleeper plane and I found it extremely comfortable. I never really minded sitting up, but having to get out at the different stops is not always so agreeable, and on this trip I did not have to get out until we reached the west coast.
Time for a little rest here, and I should be in Seattle by nine o'clock tonight.
