
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday
                  —On Friday afternoon, the children of the Todhunter School surprised me by giving a very creditable performance of James Barrie's "Mary Rose." I drove home with my mother-in-law, who very sweetly and wistfully asked if I could not have tea or dinner with her. I wish so often one could divide oneself into little pieces and see all the people one would like to see as often as one would like to see them. However, the little drive over gave me a chance to talk over a few things with Mrs. Roosevelt and realize what a busy person she is and how keen her interest is in many things.
My brother and some friends had dinner with me and we went to see a play called "The Circle",," which I much enjoyed. Tallulah Bankhead and Grace George were both excellent in their parts, as were all the rest of the cast.
Afterwards I attended the New York Newspaper Women's Club dance and was very happy to be able to give the prizes in three different fields of journalism to Marion Young, Dorothy Dunbar Bromley and Eunice Barnard.
I admire all these women so much, who through sheer hard work and ability have climbed to success in their chosen profession. It was a great priviledge to have an opportunity to share in their honors. I always wish I could stay on and really have some of the fun of those parties as well as the ceremonies. Even Miss Ida Tarbell, who was one of the judges, was still there when I was obliged to leave in order to get some sleep on the night train before I reached Washington Saturday morning.
Yesterday was a busy day. I started out by having a photograph taken with Mr. Stuart McDonald, which announced the competition to be held for architects by the Ladies Home Journal for the best plans for small and low-cost houses. This is the field in which the greatest amount of building should be done in the next few years. From my point of view, it is the most interesting field, so I am delighted to have the opportunity of seeing these plans and serving as a judge in the competition.
Then I spent a few minutes at the Girl Scouts practice house, this being Better Homes Week. I was struck by the training which these girls are receiving in the tasteful arrangement of food and flowers.
Back at the White House, I received 450 members of the Children of the American Revolution. At 12:30 I went over to greet the Pen Women at their luncheon, and then held the largest reception of the year for the Daughters of the American Revolution. I am happy it was a good day so that they could go out on the East and West Balconies, which relieved the congestion in the White House.
Today, at 9:30, a few Girl and Boy Scouts came in to be received. At noon we left for Quantico to join the President on board the U.S.S. Potomac and return with him to Washington.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
