
                  CHEYENNE, Wyo.
                     —The past two days have been busy days filled with a variety of impressions. I have never seen the very beautiful Nebraska State Capitol and though on these triptrips you never have time for any real sight-seeingsightseeing, I was glad to sit facing it while my husband spoke and enjoy its beauty.
Already in Lincoln, we began to be in that clear western atmosphere which brings everything so close to you. Today in Cheyenne, Wyoming, my husband pointed to some hills, very blue in the distance and asked how far away they were. Governor Miller responded: "Oh, about twenty-five miles." At which my husband 
                     responded
                   gasped and said: "ATAt home they would be about twelve miles off."
From long habit I have gained a technique of observation on the fly so to speak, and the fact that railroad trains nearly always wend their way through the worst parts of cities, while if you are driven through the business and residential parts, give one a chance to see different sides of life! Have you ever thought how much you can learn from people's wash lines? When I was small I used to amuse myself in coming into New York City on the New York Central, by looking into the lighted windows at night and making up stories about the people I glimpsed in passing. Now I try to gain some kind of an idea of how people live by seeing their back yards or their front steps, catching a glimpse of their wash lines, of the children playing in the street, of the men and women who come out to wave at the passing train or car.
It is interesting too, as you go through the country to think how different is the farmer's life in Wyoming to that of the farmer in New York State.
We were in the diner this morning as we left Nebraska and came into Wyoming. I like this country for its sense of limitless space. I suppose that having lived all my life in a different kind of countrt sidecountryside, I should never be content entirely away from it. But there is something fascinating about a lonely rider on a far horizon and the feel of being alone with nature. The Wyoming sun is warm and the Wyoming wind blows steadily and they tell me that in winter, snow stays but a short time on the ground because the wind blows it away.
A group of children were introduced to my husband at lunch and I was told afterwards that one little girl had been told she must curtesycurtsey to the President. This worried her so much she doubted if she could go through with the ordeal, but finally after thinking it over said: "Well, I think I'll risk it."

