
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Wednesday—I think I owe a little tribute to the
railroads, for on Monday I did a bit of shuttling around on rather
tight schedules. If I had been late, it would have meant putting out
many people, but I was very fortunate, as no train was more than
fifteen minutes late during the entire day! That's a record of which
the railroads can be proud in these crowded and busy times.
Yesterday, three young cousins of mine came to lunch. I am
sorry to say that contact with them is not very frequent, but it
is always a great pleasure to me to see them, because then I catch
up on their activities and the news of their children. It seems
incredible that any of them have boys old enough to be in the service,
or girls who are graduate nurses, but nevertheless it is true, and
the wonderful thing is that they look so young and that I still
don't feel too old in comparison with them.
I am always waiting for the day to appear when I shall put on
my little lace cap and sit by the fire. But when I am with a number
of young people, I become so interested that I put off that day
just a little longer.
In the afternoon I went to speak at a meeting of the New York
League of Women Voters, which was held at the home of Mrs. Max
Ascoli in Gramercy Park. Miss Dorothy Thompson was the main speaker
and her subject was the responsibilities of women in the present
period. She is a most stimulating and interesting speaker and I was
grateful for the opportunity to hear her. She made me feel that we
women should unite on the care of children and work much harder than
we have in the past, because it would help solve so many of our
other problems.
After the meeting, I walked through 20th Street past Roosevelt
House and had a yen to go in and look at it again, but it was too
late and I am sure that it was already closed.
In the evening I dined with my cousin, Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt,
and had the pleasure of meeting Mr. John Hersey, who wrote "A Bell
for Adano," a book which I much enjoyed recently. After dinner, Mrs.
Roosevelt asked some friends in, and we talked about my various
trips.
I had a chance to ask Dr. Foster Kennedy some questions, as he
can speak with authority. He is helping with many of the problems
which grow out of the war and he feels that the work which Mrs.
Anna Rosenberg has started in New York City in connection with the
placement in jobs of returned servicemen and their readjustment to
civilian life, should be very widely extended throughout the nation.
At dinner, it was interesting to find that one man had just
returned from Italy, another from Cairo, and another from London.
What varied information our young men will have acquired during these
strenuous years!
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
