
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday —Friday night in Danville, Va., we had only a very short time to get ready for my lecture, but Mayor Meade and his wife met us at the station and drove me straight to the hotel to change. They were both most kind. It was a great pleasure to see Governor Price also at the meeting.
The lecture was sponsored by a group of young business men called the Exchange Club. They told me they put on one entertainment a year for the benefit of an underprivileged children's fund, the money being distributed by school teachers. They give clothing and assistance, thus enabling the children to go to school.
The war has already touched DenvilleDanville. The fall in sterling and the uncertainty about shipping caused British buyers to withdraw from the tobacco market and close it down. Danville is, of course, a tobacco center and many of the people are concerned. On the other hand, the cotton manufacturers are feeling encouraged that war will bring them additional orders.
We reached Washington Saturday morning and there at the station was my brother, who had routed out of bed one or two other people to come with him to meet us. He had insisted on being there, not only when the train actually got in, but by his New York watch— which meant that they had waited an extra hour. Nothing daunted, however, he agreed to wait another three quarters of an hour and bring his guests to breakfast with me on the White House porch, which was a very pleasant beginning to a busy day.
My first press conference of the season was at eleven o'clock. Then I went to see a friend, who returned to lunch under the trees in the garden. Little Diana Hopkins is staying with us and had two small friends join us.
Several appointments in the afternoon and, after dinner, an hour and a half at the Woman's National Democratic Club. I hope that Mrs. McAllister, chairman of the women's division of the Democratic National Committee, will feel repaid for the work she has done on this woman's day. It should help to make Democratic women conscious of their responsibility in government.
If women of other political faiths listened to the first part of the broadcast, I feel sure that the facts given must have been of interest to them as well.
The heat is not so great in Washington, and one of my daughters-in-law, who arrived this morning, exclaimed as we sat on the porch at breakfast: "What a beautiful day!"
For me, however, it was quickly clouded, for when I went into the President's room, he told me that at five, and again at six, o'clock he had to be awakened to receive dispatches announcing Russia's entry into Poland.
A curious way to aid the cause of peace!
(COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
