
                  WASHINGTON
                     —It seemed to me that I spent a great deal of time yesterday running down from my desk to shake hands with various and sundry small groups of ladies, the largest group was about one hundred.
Because I have quite a number of the family here and amongst thethem a small boy, I decided we would lunch in the garden, remembering in my youth that that was always a joy! In the morning my guests went over to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and then to Mr. J. Edgar Hoover's Department and I joined them there at twelve o'clock to see what I had not had time to finish the last time I took a group of young people over there. To me the most interesting thing was the room in which the men are trained in observation. I have always felt that most of us were peculiarly lackinlacking in the power to take in much that we actually see. What is expected of the men who must solve what to most of us would be impossible mysteries brings this home most effectively!

                  Little Sonny Milholland, my young cousin, nine years old, enjoyed being allowed to try a twenty-two rifle in the shooting gallery and as he left he turned to the men who had been taking him around and much to their joy and amusement said: "I am so sorry I have to go". They promptly invited him to come back. I do not think he quite understood why his family insisted on bringing him home!
In the afternoon they all went off to Mt. Vernon and after receiving two more small groups of people, at four o'clock my guests from the National Training School for Girls arrived. They were all much interested in everything they saw whether it was of historical interest like the China Room or purely utilitarian like the kitchen.
In the evening I went over to a ship model exhibition to which my husband had lent one of his models. There were some interesting old models as well as some work done today by people whose hobby it is to make exact reproductions of larger ships on a small scale. Then the Ball for the benefit of the Thrift Shop.
Today after luncheon some of us went down to join the President at Quantico and came up the River on the Potomac with him. We were back in time for supper, when we were joined by Mr. and Mrs. Eddie Peabody. Mr. Peabody played and sang for the President and our guests after supper.
