
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday—I had no space to tell you that on Sunday night we went to see a performance of "Life With Father",," which was donated by the management and the cast to the Birthday Ball Celebration Fund. I knew that the President would greatly enjoy this play. While he no longer rocks with laughter as some of the younger people do, he appreciated all the fine points. When the cast came to supper with us after the performance, he told them how much he had enjoyed it.
The youngest member of the cast proved an ardent student of American history and demanded that I explain how DollyDolley Madison had outcut the portrait of George Washington out of its frame when the British burned the White House. Stage children always seem to me precocious and more interested in intellectual things than the average child. I suppose their teaching is more individualized and they have more time to spend on play.

                  Some oneSomeone asked me the other day if I would please give, in my column, the recipe for yams baked in oranges which we had for lunch. Since it is quite simple and I think many people may enjoy it, I give it here below, though if you want to look it up for yourself, it was contributed by Mrs. S. R. Ombres and can be found in her cookbook: "Katch's Kitchen."
Cut the top off six navalnavel oranges and with a spoon scrape out all the pulp. Wash six sweet potatoeunremarkables and boil in salt water until soft. Drain and peel them. Mash them well with a potatoe masher, add three to five tablespoons of cream and two tablespoons of butter, a little grated orange peel (orange part only) salt to taste, a little orange juice and two tablespoons of sugar and beat until fluffy. Fill the oranges with this and bake until lightly browned on top.
Mr. and Mrs. David Gray reached us yesterday afternoon and their description of driving up from the sunny South sounds anything but pleasant. The roads were snowy and icy. They found themselves marooned in a snowbank and, when they got out, proceeded with great caution, counting at least twelve trucks overturned by the wayside and others marooned in snowbanks. I was glad to have them safely herohere, but feel a little sorry for the people who are searching for warmth in Florida at the present time, for they tell me it was extremely chilly there.
This is a quiet morning for me, but the house is all agog, for at noon today a galaxy of movie stars will come for luncheon and beforehand there must be photographs and movies taken. For the first time, the President is going to lunch with us, which is a compliment to these young entertainers, for except on a Saturday or a Sunday, I have never before been able to lure him to luncheon, even on his birthday.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE)
