
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday—The meeting at noon yesterday at Brooklyn College grew to such proportions that I had to speak from the balcony outside the president's offices, with the students assembled out of doors on the campus below. It is a charming campus, and I must say that that part of Brooklyn, with its detached houses and lawns and trees, struck me as being a very nice and almost suburban residential section.
I was happy that the sun was shining and that it was not bitterly cold. It seemed quite enough to ask those young people to stand for over an hour during these ceremonies held in commemoration of International Students Day.
At 5 o'clock I had a small tea at my apartment for some of the young women who did volunteer work for Mrs. David Levy in the campaign. I think the experience has made many of them realize that they want to go on working along citizenship lines to assure the results which they fought for in the campaign. This is a great gain for the nation as a whole if it holds good all over the country.
The meeting of the Committee for Refugee Education at Cooper Union in the evening was very well attended, and I got back to my apartment by 10 o'clock in time to spend half an hour with a gentleman who had been trying all day to see me. Then I went to the broadcasting station, where at 11:15 I gave a five-minute summary over the air of what I had said at Cooper Union. Finally I made the midnight train for Washington.
I am only one day behind in the mail, but it looks as though there is a great deal of unfinished work piled up. I found the President looking very well, but a little depressed also by his accumulation of mail. Our daughter returned yesterday from seeing her elder son at his military school. This afternoon I am seeing a number of people at half-hour intervals, but I hope this evening I shall be able to catch up with all accumulated work.
I have an appeal from the Camp Fire Girls to mention their difficulty in finding leaders. I imagine that the Girl Scouts, as well, suffer from the fact that women are very busy these days. I have always been a great believer in these two groups, and have felt that women who gave their time so unselfishly were doing a fine piece of work. I cannot help feeling that, in spite of all the war work which women now have to consider, these agencies should not be neglected. They help to keep down juvenile delinquency, and I feel that that is of paramount importance. No time given to the leadership and guidance of the girls in these organizations could be better employed.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
