
                  HYDE PARK
                     —Just as I expected yesterday afternoon there was a succession of visitors, most of them to see the President. The poor things had to spend a considerable amount of time seeing his family while they waited to see him!

                  Franklin, junior, arrived rather late in the evening and we at once launched into preparations for getting off to college this morning. Isn't it an extraordinary thing that until they actually start to pack it never occurs to boys to remember where they left their blankets or linen from the year before? When I finally saw them start off this morning, they had just enough linen to last the first week and strict orders to investigate and wire me immediately what they needed. Like all boys, they very blithely remarked that two sheets could last more than a week.
When these packing times come, besides trying to see that nothing is forgotten I try to extract such things as I know they have outgrown or outworn and give them away instead of letting them continue to clutteclutter up drawers and closets. I think, however, the boys have a little of their father in them, for they always look livinglylovingly at anything old and say: "You know that might be useful, mother, sometime." And woe is me if ever I take anything which hasn't been given me on the assumption that nobody will ever know the difference. They always know sooner or later!
Breakfast started this morning at seven-fifteen and our first departures were at seven-thirty. The boys were a little delayed because they had to see their neicesnieces and nephew ride. Sara, age four, has a pony that you can hardly tell from a police dog in size, and she has acquired complete confidence with him, but she has to have constant admiration. In the midst of the packing we would dash down to the front door and say: "Darling how well you are doing",," and dash back. Eleanor has to leave this afternoon for her school opens tomorrow. She went out this morning for her last ride on John's big hunter which she is now jumping over the two foot jumps. Eleanor sees no reason for going back to school—life is so much pleasanter in the country. All we can do is to console her with the thought that she will be up every week endweekend. Curtis will have to go to school next week. But this morning he rode out on my horse with no leading rein, showing that in spite of his first fall a few days ago, he has no fears!
