
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Wednesday—Have you read a book called "Is Germany Incurable?",Incurable?" by Richard N. BrucknerM. Brickner, M. D.M.D. He shows in careful scientific fashion what are the characteristics of a paranoid individual, and continues from that to the proof that Germany is a paranoid nation.
The last chapters were a great relief to me and most interesting, because he evidently thinks that there is hope of dealing successfully with both a paranoid individual and a nation, if there are clear areas which can be tapped and used to bring them back to a sane condition. The books seemed to me to cover only one phase of a very great problem, but it is an interesting phase and one we should know more about.
I spent the morning at a meeting of the heads and members of national women's organizations, called by Mr. Charles Taft, Director of Community War Services, in an effort to discuss social protection. Director McNutt opened the meeting. Mr. Taft and Mr. Eliot Ness out-linedoutlined the problem as it faces the country today. Miss Elsa Castendyck of the Children's Bureau, discussed juvenile delinquency in the teen-ageteenage group, and Miss Jane Hoey spoke of the problem in connection with families needing public assistance.
I have always felt that this problem is very largely tied up with general social conditions and what we do in our communities to meet the needs of young people and older people. It is not just a question of caring for those who are the victims of social diseases, it is really a question of removing the conditions which bring about environments where social diseases flourish.
Women's organizations should take a special interest in this problem, because it affects the home. In war timewartime many of these problems are brought to us and dramatized as they might not be under peaceful conditions, but the problem is one that exists at all times and will have to be followed up after the war if we really want to make a dent in the ravages caused by these dread diseases.
I have just seen the plans for child service centers which are contemplated in the Henry J. Kaiser shipyards, and I hope they will be able to put them through in all their plants. It will certainly make it more possible for women with young children to go to work with the feeling that their children are well cared for. The children will get an opportunity for expert care and training which will probably be of value throughout their lives.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
