
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Sunday—I have just read a book by Ethel Gorham: "So Your Husband Has Gone to War.So Your Husband's Gone to War!" It is entertaining and full of good common sense advice. I think pages 122 and 123 should be read and reread by every woman. It is a universal experience and sometimes it isn't only what happens in marraigemarriage.
Sisters and brothers, mothers and sons, girls and their sweethearts have sometimes found that furloughs were not all that they had planned. The men they were with were not the men who went away. Somehow, they were entirely different—moody, perhaps too gay, quite evidently covering something by the gaiety, anxious to forget instead of telling all the experiences which they want so much to hear.
This is just a sample of many other things which you will find useful in this little book and which, on the whole, is quite delightful to read. I loved the little bit about the woman who tried to give up her home and send her child awayand found that it created for her husband, off at the war, only a sense of terrible insecurity, because he felt he had no realhome which he remembered anywhere in the background to whichhe could cling, and for which he was actually fighting.
Many a husband would not have been honest enough to stop his wife in time. He might have thought he owed it to the woman to let her do the thing she thought wisest. Yet, as a matter of fact, all she needed to make the effort to go on living asusual, was the knowledge that the home he knew meant security to the man somewhere for beyond her ken.
What it must mean to those men so far away to be able to turn their thoughts for a minute to something they feel is fixed and stable in their world of home, something theylove, something that is their real life, not this interim which, somehow or other, they must fight through.
And now, to something in lighter vein. Franklin P. Adams has just gotten out an anthology of light verse. It is called "Innocent Merriment," and while I know these poems are his favorites, I am sure you will find plenty of your own there, too. Who does not like Christopher Morley': "The Gospelof Mr. Pepys," ending:
No one could grow up without, somewhere along the road, having enjoyed Lewis Caroll's "Father William." So, when you want a pleasant hour, pick up "Innocent Merriment."
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
