
                  
                     ArthurdaleARTHURDALE, West VirginiaW. Va., Wednesday—Monday, the 22nd, was the 62nd anniversary of the signing of the Korean-American Treaty, out of which grew much of the interest which we have had for Korea in this country. The history of our actions that first year makes interesting reading, in view of what was to happen to Korea later. Korea is a peaceful country and much too tempting to a militaristic nation like Japan. But after the war, there may again be peace and freedom for the nations in Asia, and Korea may have an opportunity for the development of her own people to bring about their happiness.
On Monday in New York City, I stopped for a few minutes in the afternoon at the United Seamen's Service Club at 30 East 37th Street. There I met two of the women who were receiving medals for their husbands who had been lost at sea. They have a map in this club which the men can consult and which shows where similar clubs can be found throughout the world. It took my breath away to realize how many there are, as I remember when I opened the first one in Glasgow, Scotland, in November, 1942.
In the evening I spoke at the meeting of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers. They were holding a conference on Childhood and Youth. At the conference appeared people to cover every phase of child welfare work. I noticed, for instance, that they had speakers on community school lunches, pre-school education, legislation, special problems of high school associations, keeping all children safe and healthy, war activities, etc. They even asked Miss Craig McGeacheyMcGeachy, the director of welfare and relief for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, to come before them and talk of plans for the future in other parts of the world.
This conference faced the fact that it is the home as a whole, with all of its ramifications, that must be discussed if we really face the problems of childhood and youth. Just as our country will be affected by what happens to other countries in the world, so will our homes be affected by what happens to other homes throughout the world. The outlook and actions of the parents of today will have an effect on what the children do as they grow up and take over the responsibility of facing the world situations of tomorrow.
I was glad to have an opportunity to be at this meeting and to talk with some of the very fine people who probably come closer to the communities of this country than any other organized group. The Parent-Teachers Association can have more influence on the thinking of this country than practically any other group I know.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
