
                  
                     ITHACA, N.Y., Sunday
                  —Mrs. Morgenthau and I reached Elmira at 7:30 on Saturday morning and were driven over by Miss Rose to her home at Cornell University. My association with Ithaca is largely in the winter months and in spite of pouring rain, we enjoyed the drive and the beautiful colors which have not yet completely faded. Yesterday had another quite unique characteristic, we actually had an hour and a half in which we had no engagements ! In Farm and Home Week we are busy every minutes. The schedule yesterday was comparatively light. From ten to twelve, the student council which had invited me to come up held a meeting, open to all the girls in the different colleges of the university. At this meeting we talked of the problems facing the seniors who are leaving college to begin a new phase of their lives, and also of what the girl entering college has a right to expect from her four years in preparation for the next step which the seniors are facing. To me the most interesting part of the meeting was the questions asked by the girls but in such a big group I think it is difficult to get a free interchange of ideas and open discussion. I hope that when they have their next meeting there may be an opportunity at some other time during the day for smaller groups to meet with the person invited to speak.
This meeting was followed by a buffet luncheon. Dr. and Mrs. Miller from Keuka College came over to see me. We went to tea with Dr. and Mrs. Day and in the evening attended a faculty dinner.
In the room which I have had quite often here there are two pictures of Miss Martha Van Rensselaer. One does not need these reminders of her, however, for one cannot be in her house and in the College of Home Economics without feeling her spirit. It is a very real immortality which leaves such a strong stamp of personality that anyone having once known Miss Van Rensselaer cannot return to the place where she worked and which she did so much to create without actually feeling her presence.
Sunday morning a most interesting little group for breakfast, and an opportunity to hear from Dean Ladd something of his impressions, gained from a trip which covered much of the west and south and brought together people interested in agriculture in practically all of our states.
Soon we are off to make our train in Syracuse and tomorrow morning, Mrs. Morgenthau hopes to wake up in Washington and I hope to find myself in Boston.
