
                  
                     Golden Beach, FloridaGOLDEN BEACH, Fla., Thursday —Our days continue to be bright and sunny and the moon is so glorious at night that it seems a pity not to be eighteen again and subject to its influence. We have had one or two showers, but they were over quickly and everything seemed to be greener afterwards.
On Tuesday afternoon, Ignace Paderewski drove down from Palm Beach to call on me. He had gone there to attend a concert and evidently had enjoyed his evening. It was very kind of him to want to come to see me, but I felt rather guilty that he should take so much trouble.
The last two years have not been happy ones for him, with the storm clouds gathering everywhere and the danger coming ever closer to his beloved Poland. I think when you have given as much of yourself as he has to his country, it must be bitter indeed to see all your work thrown away and apparently lost because of the cruel ambitions of one man.
I do not suppose, however, that any really good work is ever lost. Somewhere the seed remains and the influence is felt in the futurfuture. But for a time at least, all that Paderewski has done as a statesman must seem to him wiped out.
One feels that these years have sapped his strength, but his eyes are as keen as ever and they look at you with an expression which is indicative of the same courage we have grown to expect from this gentleman.
We were interested too, in his young secretary, who told us a good deal about his travels in South America. I was happy to have this opportunity of seeing once again a very great man and shall take his message to the President when I return to Washington.
Yesterday afternoon I went with the supervisor of the Florida migratory camps, Mr. Paul Van derVander Schouw, to see one of the new Farm Security Campscamps just being completed at Pompano Beach. On the way up, we passed through a great deal of farming land where beans, tomatoes and peppers all seemed to be ripening.
In some places the workers have had a hard time because there has been so much water they have not been able to make crops, but around here I gather that the crops have been fair.
We drove by the houses which are at present being used by the workers, and I was impressed all over again by the lack of organization and sanitation surrounding these living quarters. The new government camp seems to me better planned than the old ones and an improvement in every way.
None of the houses have accomodations accommodationsfor more than four families. Most of them are for two family use. The clinic and assembly hall are very adequate for the size of the camp. This particular camp will house about three hundred families and is almost ready for occupation.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
