
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK. Tuesday—Yesterday morning in Washington dawned with a grey and stormy looking sky. Soon after breakfast I went to see my friend, Mrs. Edward Maccauley, who fell the other day and broke her hip, which means three months in bed. To anyone so active as she is, this is a real penalty at such a time.
We had an early luncheon at which the Duke and Duchess of Windsor were our guests. I was very much interested to hear from the Duke that he had started a small organization, resembling our CCC camps, in the Bahama Islands and felt it was going to do valuable work.
With naval activity in the Caribbean, these islands have been kept much more active than usual. I think the Duke and Duchess were looking forwardto forward to a few days of rest in the United States. I see by the paper, however, this morning, that the Duke has been called back to the islands because of some labor disturbances.
Immediately after lunch, we went to the airport and waited for a delayed plane. This resulted in my being somewhat late at my apartment in New York City for a meeting at which I had asked Miss Viola Ilma to tell something about the work of the Young Men's Vocational Foundation. Miss Ilma had so many interesting stories to tell about the boys whom she has succeeded in placing in jobs, that I think everyone present was interested.
Those she helped to get into the Army and Navy are apparently making good. The right job in industry, however, is hard to find. I think the success of the work of this organization can best be shown by the simple figures she gave.
During the first year, she placed some 80 boys out of the New York State Reform Schools, in jobs. This past year, with the aid of a larger staff, she has developed such good relationships with case workers, the parole board and employers, that over a thousand boys have been placed.
We are very anxious to interest more groups of people in this work, not because it is necessary to have a big staffor staff or a very large budget, but because much can be done with comparatively moderate sums of money and a greater number of people who are really interested. At this time it is important to give a helping hand to boys who find it hard under the best of circumstances to establish themselves, because they lack real stability in their lives.
After dining at home, we went to see Miss Mayris Chaney dance. We ended the evening enjoying a glass of lemonade on a very crowded hotel roof, where Tommy Dorsey's orchestra evidently attracts a great many young people every night.
(COPYRIGHT, 1942, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
