
                  
                     BuffaloBUFFALO, N.Y., Thursday—I came up to Buffalo last night on the midnight train, and my old friend, Mrs. Norman Mack, met me and gave me a chance for a bath and breakfast at her very comfortable home. This was a wonderful way to start what will be a very busy day.
At 10:30 I am to meet the press, and I imagine I will be asked whether I object to the skit which caused Mrs. Mack to resign from the 20th Century Club here last week. Not having seen the skit, which reportedly satirized me, I can have no opinion on the subject, because in a thing like that it all depends on the way in which it is done. I can remember many skits done by the newspaper women in Washington at their annual parties, and also when I used to give parties for them at the White House. Much fun was poked at me, but on the whole it was kindly fun and not meant to be really malicious or bitter.
I have never been able to see, however, how anyone could resent what people felt or said about you. One might be sorry that in some way one had hurt or offended an individual or a group, but certainly in a free country everyone has a right to an opinion and to the expression of it.
I am here today to speak at a luncheon sponsored by the Independent Voters Committee for the 
                     re-electionreelection of Roosevelt on the importance of using one's right to vote. A group of YMCA people who are meeting here heard that I was coming, and asked me to stop in at one of their sessions. I want very much to stop at a little factory where handicapped people are being put to work; but I am told that this is only just started, and there may not as yet be a great deal to show in the way of accomplishment.
Several girls who could not attend the luncheon asked to meet me at the train just before I leave. That will end my stay in Buffalo, and I will go on to Rochester, where I am attending a dinner under the auspices of the Independent Citizens Committee and where I shall speak on the same subject—the importance of voting. Then I take a night train back to New York City.
I have received requests for clothes, blankets and other materials from Belgian, Czecho-slovakianCzechoslovakian, French, Italian and Greek relief groups—in fact, from all the countries which have suffered so terribly during this war. They also appeal for workers to help sort and pack these things, and to sew or knit, either in their workrooms or at home. The children in all of these countries are suffering from tuberculosis, rickets and malnutrition.
I know that UNRRA has made an appeal, but these separate organizations appeal to people who have friends or relatives in these various countries. Such people will perhaps give more and do more if they feel they are giving to their own.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
