
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Monday—Yesterday JimmieJimmy and Rommie arrived here. Elliott flew from Washington, D. C.D.C., but he had to fly back in the afternoon because of a military report which he had to give this morning. He and Ruth will be able to return here later today. Johnny and Anne drove over from Boston yesterday, and Ethel will arrive this afternoon.
Anna and John telephoned from Seattle, Wash., but my husband urged them to wait and come later when he could see a little more of them. He feels that a trip just for the funeral from that distance would give him more sense of anxiety, and that he would need them more a little later on.
Of course, Franklin, Jr., is somewhere in the Atlantic and can notcannot possibly be here. I imagine he will get the news over the radio for as far as I know there is no other way of reaching him.
There is nothing in the way of a diary which I can write that people cannot duplicate in their own families, so I think I shall go back today and tell you some of the things I did last week, which I was unable to tell you about yesterday.
On Friday, in New York City, I went in the morning to see a portrait which a young artist had painted for Mr. Liberman, the President of Arnold Constable and Company, to add to the collection of portraits of inauguration gowns, which Mr. Liberman already has. Considering the fact that this portrait was painted entirely from photographs, except for what the artist could observe in a five minute talk with me last spring, I think the young man did remarkably well.
Most of Friday was spent getting things straightened out in the 65th Street house, with a brief interlude for lunch with Dr. Snavely. After lunch, I went to look at the market baskets, which the Camp Fire Girls have been working on as a project this summer. These baskets contain the food for a well balanced meal for four people at the price of one dollar. They presented me with their recipes for cooking this meal. I was glad to see this group of interested and active Camp Fire Girls.
In the evening I took Jimmy and his wife, and three other people, to see Ethel Barrymore in "The Corn Is Green." It was the second time I had seen the play and I enjoyed it as much as I did the first time. Miss Barrymore's acting is very moving in the last scenes.
We had a beautiful drive up Saturday morning, and I arrived at Hyde Park just a few minutes after the President arrived from Washington.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
