
                  WASHINGTON, Thursday
                     —As we grow older in life it is inevitable that our elders will pass off the stage. But when those we feel to be our own contemporaries go before us, we begin to feel a sense of loneliness. In Forbes Morgan's death we have lost not only a relative by marriage but a good and true friend. My own friendship with him goes back over many years, for I first met him when I was eighteen. In all these years he has been infailingly kind and sympathetic. We have been through pleasant times and some very sad times together, but never a cloud has crossed our friendship. It was a good way to go when still actively engaged in work and we who remain can but nebe grateful for the friendship we have had and the memory we will keep. When our time comes, may we all be as worthy to pass on to the "Happy Hunting Ground!"
Forbes' son and I met Mrs. David Gray who came up from Sarasota, Florida on the morning train and then I went to the Congressional Club's annual breakfast at the Raleigh Hotel. They had a delightful musical program singsung by Charlotte Simmons of the Metropolitan Opera Association, with Milne Charnley as her accompanist at the piano. She has a charming voice and every one enjoyed her singing.
These official parties like the one yesterday and this one today, are scheduled so long in advance that it always seems to me unfair to break the engagement unless it is an absolute necessity. But in some ways it is a rather curious thingsthing to have to divide one's life into personal and official compartments and temporarily put the personal side into its little hidden compartment to be taken out again when one's official duties are at an end.
Tomorrow, Friday April 23rd, will be the eighty-fifth birthday of the poet, EdwardEdwin Markham. There will be plenty of people to remember him and to pay tribute to his work and so in this column I simply want to wish him a happy birthday. May the years bring you, Mr. Markham increasing satisfaction.
I had expected to leave for New York this afternoon but that is changed on account of Forbes Morgan's funeral here tomorrow morning and certain members of my family will be gathered here tonight.
Since I mentioned the fact that I might be going out to see memy daughter the invitations have been pouring in on me fast and furiously. People ateare so very kind but this trip will be entirely unofficial. I will have only a few days out there and therefore I am making only one official engagement and that is in Seattle.
