
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Tuesday—Mayor La GuardiaLaGuardia said at luncheon yesterday that the Walter Mack Job Awards for American Youth were of great importance to business and industry, as well as to government and youth itself. The prominent people attending the party were certainly a cross-section representing a great variety of interests in American life.
In front of us, at table, sat the 13 young people who had received their contracts in the morning. They may go to work any time between now and September first. They choose the part of the country where they wish to work and the kind of work they wish to be trained to do. These jobs are created as scholarships to train young people for positions in business.
As I looked at the young faces in front of me, I thought how attractive, poised and intelligent they all looked. I wanted to talk with them all and get to know them better. They came from all over the country and I am sure they represented different racial strains, different religions and variegated family backgrounds, but they are starting out with hope. I pray that life will treat them kindly and give them useful and happy lives.
After we left La GuardiaLaGuardia Field, I spent a very short time at a meeting of Dr. Frank Kingdon's committee, which is a subcommittee of the United States Committee for the Care of Refugee Children. I am so glad that our money-raising committee has such a simple name, for anyone wishing to send a check will not find it difficult to remember the "Refugee Children's Committee, New York City."
I meetmet Mr. Drew Pearson and Mr. Robert S. Allen before dinner for the rehearsal of my brief part in their Monday evening broadcast. My son joined us for dinner by the fountain in Rockefeller Plaza, which I find a pleasant summer dining room.
Then back I went to NBC for the "Washington Merry-Go-unremarkable -Round" broadcast. I am very grateful to Mr. Pearson and Mr. Allen for giving me this opportunity to launch the money raising campaign for refugee children, which starts today.
A little after 9:00 p.m., Miss Thompson and I joined Jimmy at the theatre and we greatly enjoyed seeing "Louisiana Purchase." There is something irresistablyirresistibly funny about Mr. Victor Moore. In these days, a really amusing, pleasant evening is a great relief. The whole cast seemed to me excellent and the ladies are all so pretty they are a pleasure to see.
An early start this morning. A chance to talk with Mr. Marshall Field and we are now returning to Hyde Park.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
