I attended the meeting of the Chi Omega National Achievement Award Committee which is considering its decision for their award this coming year. It is always interesting to me how many people are really worthy of this award, for as I go through the daily round I almost forget what really fine things many women are doing. We take for granted their good work without voicing or even thinking about the appreciation which should go to them, until we sit down to really discuss outstanding people in different fields and then there are more people than can possibly be considered! This always gives me a glow of pride!
It was pleasant to get off and drive through the country in the afternoon, but the landscape is a wintry landscape now, and even though we have had very little bitter cold as yet one feels that at any time real winter may be upon us.
I visited the toy department in a Fifth Avenue Department store the other day which has taken seriously the idea that one should not display military toys, and attempted to find interesting things of other types. They seem to have been most successful, and I found a number of things to take back for Christmas stockings, just as I did at the sale for the blind.
There was a yellow elephant with green eyes, and a red and white calico donkey at this sale, both of which had such delicious expressions that I was tempted to take them for grown-upps and not for children! In the end I took only the donkey however, deciding that the other was too large for anybody's stocking!
In speaking about the fact the other day that I felt there was a new profession open to women if we were going in to a big building program, particularly for people with moderate incomes, I seem to have hurt the feelings of a number of architects. I had no intention of belittling their profession. I think we have very remarkable people in that profession with great taste and ability and a great many well trained and very adequate people. I was only pointing out one little phase of the work which seems to me particularly adapted to a woman, namely the visualizing of the interiodr of a room with the possible placing of furniture in different arrangements, and therefore the placing of lights and base plugs, door and windows from the standpoint of the interior and not from the exterior or architectural point of view alone. I realize that many men can do this as well as a woman, but it seemed to me something within a woman's province and a place where her help might legitimately be given for everybody's benefit.
There are little practical things in housekeeping which no man really understands, and which are particularly important for people who do a good deal for themselves. More and more of us I think are going to do certain household things for ourselves in the future, so it is well for us all to see that the practical side of life has its place in the new housing.
