
                  
                     Hyde Park, N. Y.HYDE PARK, Sunday—At last there is some relief from this warm weather which has made so many people uncomfortable! Having taken iced coffee for supper Friday night, I was able to read late in bed and feel the delicious change in the atmosphere which came toward early morning.
When I went into Poughkeepsie yesterday morning to have some of the salt I had accumulated washed out of my hair, the first thing my hairdresser said was: "How glad I am that my vacation begins this evening! The heat has made me feel I simply cannot move."
The priviledged ones among us, who vacation all the time, at least to the extent that all we do we do from choice, miss a good deal probably in not planning and anticipating the time when we choose our own occupations.
It was fun running around yesterday morning doing the household buying. I stopped for a second to speak to a crippled man who sits in a chair selling papers on the corner of a Poughkeepsie street. He sits there winter and summer and I have come to count on his cheerful smile and pleasant greeting. What courage it must take! Yesterday, he and a little colored newsboy were busy solving some problem and I imagine he does many helpful things for these youngsters. Most of us would feel that our ability to help anyone else had reached the vanishing point if we were in his shoes.
I am reading a book written by Betty and Ernest Lindley called "A New Deal For Youth." It was written as a report for the President on the activities of the Youth Administration, but it is far more than a report. It is interestingly written and, in addition, it gives the picture of youth in this country as it appears to the eyes of trained observers who are seeing this side of the nation for the first time. The facts these two writers set forth simply corroborate the findings of the Youth Commission.
The problem to deal with is here for us. The authors go on to show what the Government has been able to do for a very small percentage of those who need assistance. This is valuable chiefly because it stirs the imagination and makes one hope that this younger generation can work out new problems in new ways. I find this book interesting and have gained much knowledge from it in spite of the fact that I have tried to follow this work rather closely, just as I try to be familiar with much else that youth does along many lines.
I hope people reading this book will not be content with reading alone, but will find out what is going on in their communities and lend a helping hand. Youth needs the praise and counsel of older heads more than the blame and criticism which is so often comes its way if it makes some mistake or indulges in some foolish adventure.
(Copyright, 1938, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
