
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—I find in my mail an increasing interest in the problems of individuals living in farm communities, who feel that it is easier for the larger farm owners to get consideration for their needs than it is for the farmer with a small acreage. The knowledge of the disparity of opportunity for the child living in some of our Mountain States, or in some of the poorer agricultural states where the average holdings are small, is gradually becoming a real concern to people here and there throughout the nation.
It seems to be recognized that the Farm Security Administration has done more than any other agency to help the small farmer, and perhaps this awakening among people to new desires, which I notice in various groups, arises from new opportunities that have been made available. If this is true, it should have a bearing on the work done by us in other nations as well as in our own, for it should emphasize the fact that people have to experience the benefit of something before they realize that they desire it.
At lunch yesterday we had a discussion about the returning disabled veterans, and the need for publicity which would really tell people the truth and help to fit them more adequately to welcome the veterans home. Since the numbers are going to increase month by month, more people will be in need of help and advice, and frequently they do not know where to find it.
In the afternoon Lieut.-Col. Sir William and Lady Fraser-Tytler and Mr. and Mrs. Hans Sulzer came to tea. Mr. Sulzer is here from Switzerland for the economic conference. It seems a long while—25 years, I think Mr. Sulzer said—since we had been together in Washington in our more youthful days.
Some young people came to dinner with me, and I worked until late on the mail.
I think that I have really succeeded in complying with the request that all Christmas packages go out by mail before December 1. I still have one or two which must go today, but if I slip up, I can take them in my hands to New York and deliver them myself. It has been quite a struggle to get everything off, but it is a great pleasrepleasure to have most of the Christmas packages actually out of the house and on their way. I have had more fun doing them up because it has not been a last-minute rush.
Some friends of my daughter are here from Seattle on business. They have a son at school nearby, and I expect another couple, whose boy is about the same age, to arrive from New York tonight, so I hope these young people will enjoy themselves.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
