
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—I have a very interesting memorandum from Mrs. ShephardShepherd Krech, who is President of the Maternity Center Association in New York City. She points out that Hitler, knowing the value of family life, has gone about destroying it in every country in Europe. We should realize, she says, that what he tries to destroy is worth our preserving.
In these years, when family life is threatened because of the absence of our men and war industry's need for increased production, we are not giving enough attention to the care of mothers and children and the home under the stress of war. If we are to win the war in reality, this is one of the most vital needs. We should not forget for a minute to continue our support of agencies which make a contribution to family life in our country.
There are many ways to contribute to the protection of the home and the children of the country. Proper working conditions for women and the organization of the community to increase the protection that can be given to the children during the day, will help bring us through this period with our homes intact. Hot mealsin factories, hot school lunches, cheap but good restaurants from which hot food can be taken home in containers, the organization of counsellingcounseling services, shopping and laundry services, are all essential. These services will protect the home and still allow us to meet the demands of the war situation.
It seems that we still intend to say that we exempt pre-Pearl Harbor fathers from serving in the armed forces because they are fathers, instead of saying that we exempt pre-Pearl Harbor fathers, or any other men who are needed to support their families. The latter approach would seem more realistic theto the fathers already in the front line, as well as to their families.
Next Monday, the 22nd, there will begin a national collection of discarded clothing and rags under Mr. Herbert M. Faust, Director of the Salvage Division of the War Production Board. The drive will last through December 4th.
Many of our textile mills that would normally produce new clothes are now engaged in weaving materials for the war. There is no shortage, however, for our own use. But if we are to meet emergency demands for the rehabilitation of liberated people abroad and for relief purpose here at home, our old clothes must be reconditioned and put to use. Nothing that you can wear is wanted. But anything you are discarding should be given.
(COPYRIGHT, 1943, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
