
                  SAGINAW, Mich., Wednesday—At six-thirty this morning my telephone rang and I realized as I do over and over again that if I had gone to sleep when I finished signing the mail instead of going to bed and reading three newspapers and many pages of a book I'm now absorbed in, it would have been easier to get up! I turned over and began to think of all the things I really need not do, but finally I decided that I had to pack and I had to dress and very reluctantly I started on the morning routine.
After the speech last night we had a sandwich in our room, not having had any dinner. The same waiter who had presented me in the afternoon with three articles he had written in favor of the administration and which were published in a Detroit paper, made me a really touching little speech of farewell.
Oh dear, oh dear, what a wonderful gift it is to be able to make people who never even speak to you feel that they know you and are your close friend, but what a terrific responsibility! The old saying "uneasy lies the head that wears a crown", should be translated into a new one: "uneasy lies the head of him who carries the people's dreams". But as a matter of fact it doesn't lie uneasy at all, and I am sure that by now he is sleeping peacefully and happily, lulled by the motion of the ship.
This trip to BuenesBuenos Aires is of great importance. For the first time the nations of this continent are really meeting in a friendly spirit, anxious to cement their friendship and to promote their trade. A big step forward.
We reached Saginaw at eleven-fifteen this morning,. At the moment I am looking out of the window of the Bancroft Hotel at a constandconstant stream of cars passing over the bridge which spans the river. Most of the population must have been hunting, for I have counted all ready ten deer tied on running boards. At this rate I should think there would be no deer left in northern Michigan if that is where they all go hunting.
My press conference this morning consisted of one real newspaper reporter who seemed a very kindly young man, and three high school reporters. These youngsters are really learning the technique of asking questions. I often wish I could see their stories after they write them and find out what they make of my answers. They are very nice young things though, and I really have more fun with them than I have with the adult scribes.
I must go out for a walk and then get ready for an influx of guests at four o'clock.

