
                  WASHINGTON
                     —Amelia Earhart, Mr. Putnam and I had breakfast together this morning and I was interested to hear her say that she felt a great many young people were not getting from their education the proper equipment with which to meet life. She has enjoyed her contact at Purdue with the young people there and I think she must have been a great help to them in pointing out the ways in which education could be more practical and provide a greater variety of leisure time interests.
I worked at my desk most of the morning and had two neighbors from Campobello Island, Mrs. Prince and her daughter, Miss Mildred Prince, for luncheon with me. After luncheon I saw first, a lady interested in a child from Cambridge, Massachusetts, who had asked the President to help her get into Warm Springs. The President made the necessary arrangements but the child's doctor in writing to Dr. Hoke about her case, explained that he did not feel that she would profit by this treatment and Dr. Hoke agreed with him on the basis of his report. So, of course, it would not be fair to take her down there and keep her in a place which some other child might have.
After that I had a visitor, Mrs. C. E. Merrill, who at one time taught in a federal hospital here, and who later was employed in developing the Children's Museum in Brooklyn, New York. She has an idea that one should develop a Pan American Children's Museum here and that it would be helpful in promoting understanding and better relationshiprelationships on this continent. I entirely agree with this but think that a move of this kind should be undertaken by Dr. Rowe of the Pan American Union.
After that I received the graduating class of a Masonic Orphanage from Oxford, North Carolina. They were such a nice group of young people and I was interested to find that there are funds which enable them to continue their training so that they eventually face the world with a definitewith definite equipment. Some of them are to bebecome nurses or teachers and others are trained as printers, and mechanics and none have difficulty in getting jobs.
The President and I are going to be entertained by a group of Indians who are doing some of their dances, in the South Grounds this afternoon, and then we drive out to Mt. Vernon to have tea with the Regents.
