
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Sunday —I woke today to a strong breeze and, for a moment, thought that autumn was already with us. The trees were blowing and the air had a snap almost like September. I was beginning to feel really melancholy, when I remembered that August occasionally gives us days like these to remind us that our summer days are drawing to a close and we must enjoy them to the full.
That reminded me of a quotation which came to me in a letter the other day from a young man who used to work with an airline and with whom Franklin, Jr., and I once went on a special trip to Chicago. This young man is now in the Army and seems to be getting much out of his military service. The explanation of his success may lie in the fact that this quotation appeals to him;
(David Starr Jordan.)
We spent a quiet day yesterday. In the afternoon, Mr. C. R. Smith, President of the American Airlines, came in time for a swim, and then we all went to dine with Secretary and Mrs. Morgenthau.
The Women's Democratic Club of Hyde Park gave its annual card party on our picnic grounds. I went down to greet them and found myself signing quite a number of bookswhichbooks which had been given as prizes for the card games.
This is a day for walking in high places. I am sure that the view from the top of the hill will be clear and far flung, so that is where I am going.
A friend of mine in Connecticut has just sent me a record of the accomplishments of the CCC camps in that Statestate. It is an impressive list of achievments and one does not wonder that he feels sad at the realization that a carefully built supervisory personnel has practically disintegrated because there is at present such a cut in the number of CCC, boys.
I wonder if those men rejected for Army service might not be greatly improved in health, if they could receive basic medical care and then be assigned to CCC camp work for a while. It also seems necessary, however, to change some of the opportunities offered and give boys in CCC a chance for training as well as for work on forest and conservation projects.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
