
                  
                     HYDE PARK, Monday—I took two groups of people over to the library yesterday and each time found a goodly number of visitors who seemed to be enjoying the exhibits. My two young cousins, the Rath-bone boys, were very charming guests. They enjoyed the library just as much as they enjoyed the little boats on our pond and the swimming in the pool. In addition, they were extremely useful at our picnic lunch, and I wished I could always have two such nice young assistants.
At 4:30, Secretary and Mrs. Morgenthau came up for a visit. Then, after a brief talk, I took four guests, who had come up to discuss the refugee problem, up to my cousin, Miss Laura Delano, for dinner.
Today the Arthurdale Advisory Committee members are coming up to meet with me and to lunch here. Then I am going to New York City in the late afternoon, so as to be ready tomorrow morning for a 9:30 engagement.

                  Parent'sParents' Magazine has now decided that the girl in her teens has no magazine designed for her particular interest. Therefore, they are getting out a publication entitled: "Calling All Girls",," edited particularly for the gentler sex.
I was reminded on Saturday, by one of our guests, that a couple of years ago we celebrated my brother's birthday in North Carolina and attended the pageant of the Lost Colony at Roanoke Island. In July of this year, Roanoke Island began the celebration of the 354th anniversary of this lost colony.
As we look at what is going on in Europe today, I cannot help feeling that this is the year for all Americans interested in their own history to see this pageant. There is so much in the play pertinent to what is going on in the world. Great Britain was fighting Spain in those days, as she is fighting Germany today. The spirit which made her victorious then, is what must be counted on to make her victorious now.
I do not think anyone can attend this outdoor theatre performance without feeling an admiration for the artistic quality of the production and acquiring a genuine interest in the locality and its people, as they were then and as they are today.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
