
                  
                     Boston, Mass.BOSTONmissingerpp, Wednesday—The trip I took yesterday was over a road I had not travelled before. The first part of it was very familiar until we reached Sharon, Conn., and took Route 4. Somehow, I have missed this road up to now, and I was completely charmed with it. Much of the way one is either in sight of a swiftly running stony brook, or of small lakes. Frequently the woods and hills close in around one.
I enjoyed the drive and I have never seen roses growing in such profusion; over stone walls, up trellises on houses and even on trees. Pink and red rambler roses seem to swarm in lavish abundance.
We had a shower or two on the way. When we stopped under a tree for lunch, it began to rain in earnest just as we barely finished. Suddenly I looked up from buttering bread to see a state police car and a state policeman conversing with some members of the party.
He turned around and when I asked him if we had done anything wrong, he answered: "No, just don't drive too fast." Since I had been driving with particular care, I felt quite sure that that could not be his chief concern. I found later that he had come to make sure that we were not in any trouble and did not need any help.
We reached the Hotel Statler in Boston, about 4:00 o'clock, and Johnny met us at the door and took his grandmother upstairs. Anne joined us and very soon Jimmy and Rommie and Mr. Sargent came. We all sat around chatting until Johnny had to go back to school at 5:45.
My mother-in-law had a light supper while we sat with her, and then she went to bed. Miss Thompson and I went out with Jimmie and Rommie to eat far more than was good for us, at a restaurant which Jimmy remembered from his college days.
I think we all slept well last night. I tried to drive so carefully and was so afraid that something would happen which would give my mother-in-law a scare, that I found myself more tense than I ordinarily am.
Everyone that I have seen so far is relieved that the United States is taking over in Iceland, and thereby making sure that no enemy will gain a foothold at the northern end of this hemisphere. I am sure we are going to know more about Iceland than we have ever known in the past. I didn't know that it was the oldest democracy in existence, nor did I realize that many of her sons and daughters have come to settle in the United States.
This morning we are stopping to see Anne and young Haven Clark Roosevelt, and Ethel and young Franklin D. Roosevelt III, because my mother-in-law can not bear to neglect the youngest members of the family.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
