
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Tuesday—I spent a most interesting day yesterday in Philadelphia. Miss Thompson and I did all the mail on the way over from New York City, so I felt the afternoon and evening were entirely free.
The luncheon held by the Pennsylvania Branch of the Women's International League For Peace and Freedom was a gathering largely composed of women, but I sat beside Mr. Rufus Jones who came back from a successful trip to Germany a short time ago. Some people laughed when three Quakers went over alone and unarmed to talk to the military head of a nation. There is strength, however, in representing an accumulation of good works and a spiritual power of love which functions even in the midst of hate. When the three came home again, the laughter seemed to have died down.
I do not, of course, agree with everything for which the League For Peace and Freedom stands, but I have a profound respect for people who are willing to think and work for their convictions. It is so easy to have no convictions at all, and if you never think you never have to change your mind.
From the lunch I went to Miss Edith T. Maul's shop at 1506 Race Street. She is a representative of the Mountaineer Craftsmen and has many things from the Arthurdale, West Virginia, workshop and from other craft workers throughout the country. There I collected some hand carved animals to take to my grandson, Bill. The ladies who kindly called for me there to take me to the Chestnut Hill Forum, seemed delighted with the shop and ordered several things. This pleased me, for I felt I might be prejudiced in favor of the work these craftsmen do, but certainly these others looked at it with entirely unprejudiced eyes.
The Chestnut Hill Forum, I had been warned, would be entirely Republican and conservative, so I went under no misapprehension. They were more than kind to me, however, and I enjoyed my time with them very much.
I had dinner with Mr. and Mrs. Curtin Winsor and saw our grandson, Bill, who has grown and developed much in the past six months. They showed me movies taken of them in Europe last summer—such beautiful scenery, such lovely villages, how can people living in them be so distraught?
The train brought me into Washington at 11:40 p.m. I found the President still awake, but our son, Elliott, was not at home yet, so I did not see him until this morning. He is here on business and will be back again with his wife in two weeks.
At my press conference this morning, Mrs. Burton W. Musser and Miss Kathryn Lewis came over to answer questions about their particular interest in the Lima Conference and we were all deeply interested in their impressions.
(Copyright, 1939, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
