
                  PUEBLO, Colo.
                     —Last night the officials of the Union Pacific Railroad sent me in a birthday cake which was good to look at and good to eat and large enough not only for our own party but for everyone on the train roto share in it. It was a gracious, thoughtful thing to do and I deeply appreciated it.
We looked out of the window as we ate our breakfast this morning to see snow capped mountains apparently quite near by. I had not been in Greeley, Colorado, which was our first stop, since 1920 and as we stepped out on the platform and I took a deep breath of this pure mountain air, I could not help saying to myself: "They are right, this is God's country."
Denver is a very lovely city with its 
                     shaded
                   streets and lovely homes, and I think the thing I like best is the many, many small homes in the outlying district.
It was a wonderful setting in which to make a speech and I think any man feeling the weight of responsibility heavy on his shoulders would have been encouraged by the audience this morning. It was so attentive and so responsive. There was no question but what they heard and understood what was said.
We drove out to Fitzsimmons Hospital after the speech and I paid a hurried visit to a Miss Anna Herendeen who worked on the Sunday Magazine section of the New York Times, and who was keen to hear something of her old friends in New York. She says she is getting well and that they have performed a marvelous operation for her. Her cheerfulness made me think of the boy I noticedcinnoticed in the crowd as we were driving through the streets. He was on crutches and he stood in the front row and leaned on those crutches and waved both arms. The whole expression on his face was one of good human and cheerfulness.
Is it the climate here that gives people so much courage or is it that meeting difficulties and overcoming them gives you backbone enough to smile at your troubles?
Back on the train again at a quarter to one. For luncheon we all enjoyed some trout which a group of C.C.C.CCC camp boys sent on board last night in Cheyenne for the President. I say we all enjoyed it, but I think I should stress the fact that as far as we could tell the President enjoyed it more than any one else. He ate longer and more slowly and sang the praises of the fish as he ate!

