
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Monday—I want to go back a little over my time in New York City, because I failed to tell you some of the things which interested me.
In stopping at the headquarters for the celebration of the President's Birthday for the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, on Friday, I found that Mr. KiethKeith Morgan was pleased and deeply stirred by the telegrams which he has been receiving from his chairmen throughout the country.
Apparently, being at war, has not in any way lessened their interest in the war against this dread disease. They feel more intensely than ever, that they must save the children by finding out how to prevent epidemics and how to care for those who are stricken. The strength of our children is the strength of our nation.
The heavy epidemics of infantile paralysis during the past three years have brought us 26,000 casualities in this particular war. We can ill afford such losses as these, and so, no matter what we give in other ways this fight must go on.
Friday evening, I took a group of young people, who are all working together, to see a light and amusing play which they had chosen. I must say they made a good choice. "Let's Face It",," is full of tuneful songs and amusing, clever lines. Danny Kaye has a great gift for entertainment and the whole cast contributed to what was a very pleasant evening. I strongly recommend it, if you don't want to be to think too much or too deeply. I imagine, these days, there are quite a number of people who are looking for just that kind of evening.
I didn't have space to tell you yesterday what really beautiful days Saturday and Sunday were in the country. It was cold and the pond was beginning to freeze, so there will soon be skating. The sky was a washed blue, as though the few flakes of snow, which had fallen Saturday morning had cleared it of every imperfection. I walked to the top of the hill on Sunday morning, just to have a look at the foothills of the Catskills and the lacy silhouette of trees against the sky.
I wish I could tell you how clear and beautiful the stars were that twinkled through the windows of my porch on Saturday night. I almost felt that I could touch them, and they made the world of war and sorrow seem so very far away and unreal. You have to come back to it, but it is good to escape for even a few minutes now and then.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
