
                  
                     Hyde ParkHYDE PARK, N. Y.—Miss Dorothy Thompson is a fellow columnist for whom I have the greatest respect and admiration as a writer as well as a person. We do not always see eye to eye on all subjects, but today I want to quote a few words from her column which I hope will sink deeply into the minds of Republicans and Democrats, and people in general all over this country.
The part of her column which reads:"  "He will work and fight when democracy means work, and bread and human dignity and brotherhood. He will work and fight to make this country the most beautiful home for men that the sun ever shone upon."
Nothing truer than this was ever written. I have wanted to say something just like it for a long time. That is why I believe that in spite of much that is being said today, we must continue along the lines which will make life more worth living for the average man.
Even though we arm, even though it costs all of us something to change our conception of personal liberty—which to many has meant the right to unlimited material profits—still we must have more housing, better health services and jobs that ensure a decent livelihood to every family.
I do not claim that anyone has found the perfect solution, or the things that have been done cannot be improved, but I know we must keep on trying. I feel deeply that we must not slacken our efforts and whatever we do must be done with the ultimate objective always before us.
I am much interested in some of the news reports which state that Mr. Gene Tunney is leading some two hundred young people to the convention of the American Youth Congress in Geneva, Wisconsin. I have only one hope, and that is that this opposition will show real wisdom in being sure that their delegates have proper credentials and meet the rules for representation on the floor of the Congress.
In this way they can avoid the diappointmentdisappointment in their efforts to present their point of view. Why does not Mr. Tunney publish in the papers, since he seems to be able to obtain publicity, these rules and the manner in which these two hundred delegates will be chosen?
All of this small group of vocal young people who are for and against many different ideas, will be watched by both sympathetic and unsympathetic people during their annual convention, and will be given, I imagine, a good deal of publicity. Therefore, it behooves all of them to behave with restraint and fairness, to have the wisdom to find out what the necessary requirements are, and to live up to them on every occasion.
(COPYRIGHT, 1940, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
