
                  
                     WASHINGTON, Friday—There is no doubt about it, I should not stay too long in any one place.
Things piled up so yesterday afternoon in New York City that I finally saw three people in a half hour to whom I had expected to give an hour an a half. As a result, I fear that nobody received just what they wanted, but at least I had enough of a picture to tell each one what I could do.
In one case I could do nothing except be appreciative of the lady's ingenuity. She has invented a method of adding to a foundation dress, so that you can have almost any garment you desire with infinite variations. All I could do was to suggest that she see what other people are doing along the same lines, for she expects to apply for a patent and patents are extremely hard to obtain on anything which is virtually a design.
I visited a friend in the hospital, and aat 5:00 o'clock ended up with a very cheerful tea party which I much enjoyed. It was a good prelude to a pleasant dinner and an excellent background to relieve a well acted but extremely disagreeable play. I don't think I ever spent an evening with such disagreeable people as are pictured in "The Little Foxes." Tallulah Bankhead gives a perfectly splendid impersonation of a heartless and ambitious woman. It can't be a very pleasant part. The worst of it is that the greed, avarice and cruelty which stalked naked before us in this play walk the world at all times. I fear, though, as a rule, they are rather more carefully disguised.
I went to the night train and arrived here this morning to find a clear but cold winter day.
Yesterday I read the first article which Mr. George Palmer Putnam has written for a magazine about his wife, Amelia Earhart, and I think everyone will enjoy the picture he has painted. He begins with an unforgettable letter. She not only could not bear to be caged herself, but she could not bear the thought of caging anyone else. So many people want honesty and freedom for themselves, but do not want to accord others the same privilege. Amelia would give just what she wanted to receive.
This morning has been busy and I have attended the District of Columbia League of Women Voters Luncheon where the skits, as usual, were very cleverly put on. This year they represented all the different phases of government which are of interest to the women in the District of Columbia.
I am off now for the United States Naval Air Station in Anacostia for the christening of the Pan-American Airways "Yankee Clipper."
(Copyright, by United Feature Syndicate, Inc.)
