
                  
                     Amherst . Mass.AMHERST, Mass., Thursday—The drive from New York City yesterday over the Merritt Parkway, up through Danbury and Simsbury to Amherst was very beautiful. The snow gleamed and sparkled in the sun and the bare trees were very lovelyagainstlovely against the blue sky. We had no idea how long it would take us but everything went very smoothly.
The roads were clear and our one concern was whether we would find any inn open for lunch. Mrs. Morgenthau had set her heart on stopping at the White Turkey Inn, but when we got there, it was marked "closed for the winter." In New Milford we found a gift shop and tea-roomtearoom combined and had a very good lunch. Some youngsters discovered that it was the President's wife who was inside and came in with the usual autograph books.
Finally, there arrived a young lady, quite breathless, who said she was the reporter for the weekly paper. Her questions were very few, her real concern was to get a young man, who had just enlisted in the Army, to come in and shake hands. She told me his courage had failed him, so that I was evidently more terrifying than possible battles. But she went out and urged him in, and I hope he found the President's wife quite harmless.
We reached Amherst a little before 4:00 o'clock. Bob Morgenthau met us and took us to our rooms. With great care, he had chosen rooms at the back of the inn because the Birthday Ball was being given and he thought, otherwise, we would be kept awake by the dancing. There were flowers awaiting us from the political union. I am beginning to feel that these young people are not only extremely good organizers but very thoughtful and considerate of the comfort of their guests.
Several people dropped in to see me, all of whom I enjoyed. Then we dressed and prepared to meet the press and the photographers. President King came over to share this interview, and then Mrs. Morgenthau and I dined with President and Mrs. King.
The hall for the meeting was filled and the questions of the young men after my short talk seemed to me very thoughfulthougthful and interesting. The times are such that youth today is taking life very seriously. I think this younger generation is going to face the realities of the world situation and the changes that have come about here and abroad with a more realistic understanding than ever before. This attitude in youth is what gives us greater hope for the future.
Another lovely day, and we are starting out now for Mt. Holyoke and Smith Colleges. It will be interesting to go from a man's colleges to colleges where there are only women. I am looking forward to having an opportunity to hear the girls discuss their point of view on the national and international scene.
(COPYRIGHT, 1941, BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
