
                  
                     New York CityNEW YORK, Tuesday—Mr. Charles KeeneKeen Taylor of the
Vocational Research Bureau was most interesting yesterday morning at
Hyde Park. He showed the young high school students that during their
school years they are building up a record which can be used to decide
what they will do well in future life. He pointed out, too, that
the things we enjoy doing in our leisure time are part of this record
and that personality and character will have a great deal to do with
the final decision of what vocation will be best.
He cited to them two boys, both of whom wanted to be doctors. One
was chosen to train as a surgeon because in emergencies he was self-controlled
and calm. The other one showed a lack of ability to control
his emotions and he was steered into a different branch of
medicine.
It is the all around boy who is being built year by year who
must be considered when a vocation for life is being chosen.
From Hyde Park I went through to Philadelphia, and had a pleasant
dinner with Mr. and Mrs. John Frederick Lewis, Jr. Then I attended
the opening of the Occupational Therapy exhibit at the Art Alliance.
It will be open for a month, and beginning today, there will be
people there from the various hospitals, military and civilian,
demonstrating how the work is done. The pictures and the finished
materials on exhibition were exciting enough in themselves, but
actually seeing people at work as I have in our various hospitals
will thrill everyone who attended this exhibit.
I hope this exhibition will be shown in the District of Columbia,
in New York, and in various other cities throughout the country when
its month in Philadelphia comes to an end. No one should be without
the information which these demonstrations can impart. It means hope
for the handicapped, whether the disability is mental or physical.
In connection with this exhibit, I was reminded of the work which
has been done lately by the Laymen's League againstAgainst Epilepsy with
headquarters in Boston. A very beautiful piece of work was pointed
out to me as the creation of a soldier who had epilepsy. The doctor
said, of course, epilepsy is sometimes allied to genius. The strides
which have been made of late in the control of this disease are
remarkable and encouraging and the League has been of great help.
I was glad to hear the other day that the Physical Therapy Aide
bill was passed and the young women working with the Armed Forces as
physio therapistsphysio-therapists may now be made officers.
(COPYRIGHT 1944 BY UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE, INC.)
